# Source: 1. 12760426Q0021_RFI.pdf

Recreation One Stop Support Services
Recreation.gov

RFI ID#: 12760426Q0021

April 28, 2026

Request for Information (RFI)/Sources Sought Notice (SSN)

1.  Introduction

The Recreation One Stop (R1S) program is in the pre-solicitation phase for the Recreation One
Stop Support Services procurement.

THIS IS A REQUEST FOR INFORMATION (RFI) ONLY – This RFI is issued solely for
information and planning purposes – it does not constitute a Request for Proposal (RFP) or a
promise to issue an RFP in the future. A solicitation is not available at this time. Requests for a
solicitation will not receive a response. This notice does not constitute a commitment by the
United States Government to contract for any supply or service whatsoever. All information
submitted in response to this announcement is voluntary; the United States Government will
not pay for information requested nor will it compensate any respondent for any cost incurred
in developing information provided to the United States Government. Not responding to this
RFI does not preclude participation in any future RFP, if any is issued.

2.  Purpose and Objective

The Recreation One Stop Program (R1S) is issuing this RFI as a means of gathering industry’s
feedback on draft documents of a potential procurement for the next Recreation One Stop
Support Services procurement. The documents provided are key components, but not a
complete package of all documents that will be provided should a Request for Proposals (RFP)
be issued. The current contract ends September 30, 2028. The Forest Service previously
conducted market research in 2024. This RFI is intended to provide the Government with
feedback on requirements that are in draft and may change based on industry’s feedback along
with continued Government requirements development. The envisioned future award is
anticipated to be a base period of five years with five one-year optional award terms for a total
possible period of performance of ten years.

The Government seeks industry inputs consistent with FAR Part 10 – Market Research to aid
the Government in arriving at the most suitable approach to acquiring, distributing, and
supporting supplies and services.

In addition to this RFI, the Government may continue its market research via an industry day
and due diligence sessions. More information will be shared via SAM.gov.

3.  Draft Documents Provided

A.  Draft Statement of Objectives (SOO)

i.

This document is intended to capture objectives and known requirements for an
offeror to be able to produce a Performance Work Statement (PWS), Quality
Assurance Surveillance Plan (QASP), and technical proposal.

B.  Sample from Draft Business Rules Attachment

i.

This document is intended to accompany the SOO and provide specific, known
needs that the current solution is able to fulfill. The small sample selected are

2

some of the basic rules for camping only to provide context for the structure of
the Business Rules document. Many more rules within camping and across other
inventories exist and have additional complexities.
C.  Draft Proposal Instructions and Evaluation Criteria (Section L and M)

i.

This document identifies the eventual proposal instructions and evaluation criteria
by which offers would be evaluated.

D.  Draft Contract Line Item Number (CLIN) Structure

i.

ii.

This document identifies the CLINs and pricing methodology. The pricing would
apply to each year of the contract.
The Government highlights the use of tiers for reservations for the contact center
and those placed online. Additionally, the Government has noted in the
telecommunications CLIN that sub-CLINs would be specific to the solution
proposed.

4.  Areas of Interest to be Addressed by Respondents

1.

2.

3.

4.

5.

6.

7.

8.

Page 6-7 of the SOO, in the text under Sections 6.0 and Section 6.1, establishes a
vision and priorities for the next solution. At a high level, please describe your
approach to meeting this requirement.
The SOO and proposal instructions/evaluation criteria include requirements
regarding FedRAMP Moderate certification at the time of proposal submission. Is
that possible for your solution or not? If not, please explain and also provide an
estimate of how long it would take for your solution to be FedRAMP Moderate
certified if your organization were to be awarded the contract.
Currently, the Government is planning to provide Business Rules and User Stories as
attachments to the SOO. Based on the sample from the Draft Business Rules
attachment, will the Business Rules attachment be helpful at the solicitation phase or
would User Stories alone be sufficient at the solicitation phase?
The proposed CLIN structure is provided. Is the proposed structure feasible for
pricing your solution? Are there other alternate pricing structures that you would
suggest within the limitations of the Federal Lands Recreation Enhancement Act
(FLREA)?
The proposal instructions and evaluation criteria establish a phased approach for the
procurement. Please provide any feedback on or alternatives to this approach.
Based on the documents provided, how much time would be needed between
contract award and a full go live for your solution?
In reviewing the SOO, are there any requirements or capabilities that have been
missed that you believe should be included?
In reviewing the documents provided, are there any challenges that would limit your
interest in bidding? If yes, please identify the challenges and any proposed solutions.

5.  Response Instructions

Interested parties are requested to submit a cover page and answers to the questions using no
more than 15 pages in length, inclusive of the cover page, in Times New Roman font of no
less than 10 pitch with one-inch margins. The Government is not interested in general
capabilities statements or generic materials such as brochures, advertisements etc. Please only

3

provide relevant information as requested above. All submissions shall be submitted in either
Microsoft Word or Portable Document Format (PDF).

Cover Page: The following organizational information is required on the cover page:

a. Organization’s Name
b. Organization’s Address
c. Point of Contact
d. Phone Number
e. E-mail Address
f. Organization is / is not System for Award Management (SAM) Registered. If

yes, please provide:

i. Unique Entity ID
ii. Cage Code
g. Company Web Address:

6.  RFI Response Submission Instructions

All responses to this RFI must be submitted via email no later than 1:00pm ET on May 21,
2026 to SM.FS.R1SProc@usda.gov.

52.215-3 Request for Information or Solicitation for Planning Purposes (Oct 1997)
(a) The Government does not intend to award a contract on the basis of this solicitation
or to otherwise pay for the information solicited except as an allowable cost under other
contracts as provided in subsection 31.205-18, Bid and proposal costs, of the Federal
Acquisition Regulation.

(b) Although "proposal" and "offeror" are used in this Request for Information, your
response will be treated as information only. It shall not be used as a proposal.

(c) This solicitation is issued for the purpose of: Market Research and planning to
support solicitation preparation.

(End of provision)

4




---

# Source: 2. Draft Statement of Objectives _SOO.pdf

US Department of Agriculture (USDA)

Recreation One Stop Support Services

Statement of Objectives

April 28, 2026

Contents
Recreation One Stop Support Services ...................................................................................................... 3
1.0 Purpose .......................................................................................................................................... 3
2.0 Mission .......................................................................................................................................... 3
3.0 Period and Place of Performance ......................................................................................................... 3
4.0 Background .................................................................................................................................... 3
5.0 Stakeholders ................................................................................................................................... 5
6.0 Performance Objectives and Operating Constraints ................................................................................. 6
6.1  Contractual – Overall ................................................................................................................. 6
6.2  Program Management ................................................................................................................ 6
6.3  Transition ................................................................................................................................ 9
6.4  Hosting ................................................................................................................................. 10
6.5  Security and Data Management ................................................................................................. 10
6.6  Reservation System and Services ............................................................................................... 11
6.7  Financial Transaction Management ............................................................................................ 15
6.8  Outreach and Communications .................................................................................................. 16
6.9  Ancillary Support Services ....................................................................................................... 16
7.0 Deliverables / Schedule ................................................................................................................... 17
8.0 Attachments .................................................................................................................................. 17
9.0 Security Violations Using Government Equipment ............................................................................... 17
10.0 Data Rights ................................................................................................................................. 17
10.1 Non-Disclosure Agreement ......................................................................................................... 18
10.2 Data Access ............................................................................................................................. 18
11.0 Privacy ....................................................................................................................................... 18
12.0 Section 508 – Accessibility of Information and Communications Technology .......................................... 18
13. Information Technology Procedure.................................................................................................... 21

13.1 Applicability of Standard Forest Service Information Technology Contract Security Language to
Acquisitions.................................................................................................................................... 21

Draft R1S Support Services SOO

2

Recreation One Stop Support Services

1.0 Purpose

The Government seeks a secure, customer-centric solution that provides external users with modern trip-
planning and reservation tools to inspire exploration, facilitate planning, guide preparation, provide
customer support, and maximize experiences on public lands.

The Government seeks a solution that also provides internal users with dynamic program management
tools, communications and information sharing support services, agile technologies, robust and reliable
data mining and reporting capabilities, a secure financial management platform that supports transaction
processing, end-user support services, and business/market intelligence services.

The Federal Government intends to award a successor contract to the current R1S Support Services
contract which expires on 30 September 2028.

2.0 Mission

Recreation.gov is the reservation and trip planning tool of choice for customers visiting Federal public
land and water destinations throughout the country. Visitors trust Recreation.gov to deliver fair access to
recreation opportunities and information and feel the service is easy to use and meets their expectations.

Recreation.gov is also the platform of choice for many federal agencies to help manage visitation through
a robust reservation system that adapts to their needs and visitor expectations. Existing and new services
are continually improved upon and developed as the teams learn more about the business needs and
challenges of field staff.

At the core of the service is the promise to continually improve the service and keep pace with technology
through robust listening tools and mechanisms to ensure the voice of the customer informs development,
enhancements, updates, and new services. The program is never “at rest”. It is always observing,
listening, evolving, and improving to increase efficiencies, effectiveness, and the experience of Federal
recreation for both internal and external customer bases.

3.0 Period and Place of Performance

The Government anticipates awarding a single, multi-year contract consisting of a phase-in period, a 5-
year base period, and 5 one-year award term periods available through the Award Term Process.

The availability of award term periods for the Contractor to earn through superior contract innovation,
performance and support is considered by the Government to be a non-monetary incentive and is offered
in lieu of monetary incentives. The award terms will be treated as pre-priced option periods.

Contractors will perform work at their own facility locations or remotely. Travel to Government offices or
specified locations may be required throughout the period of performance for certain management
activities.

4.0 Background

Originally established in 1995 under an Interagency Agreement (IAA), four Federal agencies, the U.S.
Forest Service (FS), National Park Service (NPS), U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (USACE), and Bureau
of Land Management (BLM) began the National Recreation Reservation Service (NRRS) ultimately

Draft R1S Support Services SOO

3

leading to the establishment of Recreation One Stop (R1S), an outdoor recreation portal we know today
as Recreation.gov. The vision of the R1S program is to establish and maintain a one-stop portal to meet
customer’s expectations to discover trip-related information and offer outdoor recreation reservations to a
wide variety of Federal recreation areas, facilities, and activities including, but not limited to, overnight
camping, timed ticketing, lotteries, and permits. The history of R1S is one of evolution as changing with
new laws, new services, and new agencies having made use of the Recreation.gov platform.

Congress passed the Federal Lands Recreation Enhancement Act (FLREA) as part of the 2005 Omnibus
Appropriations Bill, which allowed government agencies to charge a fee for recreational use of public
lands managed by the BLM, Bureau of Reclamation (BOR), U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS),
NPS, and FS. FLREA also created the America the Beautiful – the National Parks and Federal
Recreational Lands Pass Program, known as the Interagency Pass Program (IAP). Recreation fees allow
the agencies to meet visitor demand in delivering quality recreation, heritage, and wilderness
opportunities, while protecting our natural resources.

In 1998, the Government developed the Recreation Information Database (RIDB), the database housing
agency recreation data with the original intent of making this open and sharable with other government
entities and the private sector data. The current version of the RIDB is available at:
http://RIDB.recreation.gov. Examples of recreation inventory currently included in RIDB are recreation
areas, facilities, scenic byways, overnight camping, tour ticketing activities; group day use facilities;
camping, museums, visitor centers, marine sanctuaries and reserves, and others.  While all recreation
opportunities may be entered into the system, all do not necessarily offer anything that is reservable. This
content also includes availability and GIS data related to recreation areas and facilities. Content for the
current RIDB is provided by participating agencies and organizations either via automated web services,
or by manually entering data into a web-based interface provided by the current R1S contract service
provider.

In 2010, America’s Great Outdoors Initiative (AGO) was passed, which supported outdoor recreation
access and opportunities on public lands by establishing a Federal Interagency Council on Outdoor
Recreation (FICOR).

In 2016, the Forest Service awarded the current contract for R1S services. The current contract type is
Requirements with Fixed Price per-transaction pricing where the Contractor earns a fixed fee for each
reservation creation transaction processed via the Recreation.gov website, mobile app, the telephone
customer support center, and in-person at participating staffed Federal recreation locations. The fixed fees
under the current contract vary depending on the type of inventory being reserved and the sales channel
through which the reservation was made, etc.

Services currently provided by the incumbent contract service provider include:

• Hosting
•
Security
• Design
• Reservation functionality and maintenance for each reservation transaction.
• Aggregation, storage, and maintenance of all inventory and related data
• Reservation and transaction data associated with the website
• Outreach and communications
• Contact Center and customer support
•

Secure financial transaction processing from customer checkout to funds deposit into designated
federal treasury account(s)

Draft R1S Support Services SOO

4

•  Financial transaction and data management tools, including data mining and reporting, secure
automated data transfer, automated financial reconciliation, comprehensive financial auditing
•  Telephone, chat, and e-mail customer service and technical support operations for both internal

and external customers

•  Telecommunication support for areas without, or with limited, capability to connect to the

internet

•  Lifecycle management of secure Eurocard Mastercard Visa (EMV) chip & pin / Near Field

Communication (NFC) Tap to Pay credit card terminals for Agency field locations.

Today, R1S supports reservation services at more than six thousand different facilities which cover all
types of inventories. Each type of inventory may have its own unique attributes, amenities, business rules,
seasons of operation, etc. The program has experienced growth across inventories, including the addition
of new inventory types. For example, in 2025, the Digital Interagency Pass, a suite of nine pass types, was
incorporated into R1S. The Government does not guarantee that the current amount of inventory will
remain at the same level throughout the contract performance period.

Recreation.gov has experienced steady growth with 5 million visitors in 2008 to more than 48 million
visitors in 2025 and securely processes more than 10.5 million reservations each year.

The Government expects that the next generation contract for R1S support services will continue to
evolve based on technology, new laws, agency requirements and demands, and stakeholder needs and
expectations. As such, R1S will not be a static solution and the R1S support services contractor must be
agile and adaptable to meet evolving needs.

5.0 Stakeholders

R1S has an integrated Government team to manage the program and interact with the R1S support
services contractor. This includes:
A.  Contracting Officer (CO)
B.  Contracting Officer’s Representative (COR)
C.  Program Management Office (PMO) – The Contractor’s primary interface for management

efforts will be the PMO, an interagency body that governs all R1S efforts.

D.  Recreation Management Council (RMC) – Agency executives who provide overall direction to

the R1S PMO.

E.  Agency Program Managers (APMs) – Agency representatives who work closely with the

contractor and interface with field users to resolve any issues experienced by the agency with
R1S support services.

F.  Lottery Managers – Agency representatives who manage their respective lotteries facilitated on

the R1S platform.

G.  Concessionaires – Private organizations that operate under contracts to offer goods and services

to visitors otherwise not provided by Government personnel.

H.  Field Users – Agency personnel located at parks, forests, campgrounds, and field sites who

interact with R1S services and the public.

Approximately 5,000 stakeholders as defined above interact with the R1S services.

In addition to the roles above, the following agencies currently use R1S services:

1.  Bureau of Land Management
2.  Bureau of Reclamation

Draft R1S Support Services SOO

5

3.  National Park Service
4.  Naval District Washington
5.  Presidio Trust
6.  U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
7.  U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service
8.  U.S. Forest Service

Additionally, data appears from other federal agencies and state governments on the Recreation.gov site,
such as NOAA, State of Utah, and more with an ability to redirect to their websites.

Other federal agencies may choose to join the inter-agency program with similar or new inventory and
similar or new business rules to support their programs.

6.0 Performance Objectives and Operating Constraints

The Contractor is responsible for the accomplishment of all performance objectives to be achieved within
the operating constraints listed below. As noted in the Background section, R1S continues to evolve, and
the Contractor’s solution must also continue to evolve to meet the needs and expectations of the
Government and end users. Attachments, such as Business Rules and User Stories, provide additional
specific functionality and requirements to supplement the objectives, context/known requirements, and
constraints included below.

Section 6.1 Contractual – Overall defines the Government’s long-term objectives to:

1.  Avoid having to develop a new technology solution from scratch upon expiration of any contract

resulting from this solicitation, and

2.  Avoid creating an environment at the completion of any contract resulting from this solicitation in
which only one single vendor is capable of satisfying the diverse and complex requirements set
forth in this solicitation.

Paragraphs numbered 6.2 onward establish firm requirements to be satisfied by Offeror proposals.

6.1  Contractual – Overall

The Government seeks creative and innovative business proposals from industry which
convey to the Federal Government sufficient technical and data rights, and documentation for the
operation, maintenance, and enhancement of the proposed comprehensive technology platform upon
completion of the period of performance of any contract resulting from this solicitation. As used in this
context, the term ‘comprehensive technology platform’ refers to the entire technology platform, or
suite of platforms, proposed by the offeror to satisfy requirements defined herein, and which are
employed to satisfactorily satisfy requirements of any contract resulting from this solicitation upon
completion of the contract period of performance, there are no exclusions.

The Offeror’s proposal must detail all specifics and restrictions and/or limitations applicable to any
proposed data rights authorizations or licensing agreements relative to the technical and data rights and
documentation.

6.2  Program Management

Objectives:

Draft R1S Support Services SOO

6

A.  Agile-based processes and human centered design ensure R1S services meet the evolving needs of its

public and government users.

B.  Program management ensures overall achievement of R1S objectives and responsiveness to the R1S

interagency team.

C.  Contractor-provided training equips public and government users with the knowledge and skills to

confidently execute actions within the system.

D.  Special events, such as the Christmas Tree Lighting and White House Easter Egg Roll, are supported

with utmost professionalism to achieve seamless event logistics.

Additional Context and Known Requirements:
*Note that this is not inclusive of all requirements as the R1S services must continuously adapt to meet
the evolving needs of the program.

6.2.1.  The Contractor Program Management team must work closely with the COR, R1S PMO, and
APMs to proactively manage all contractor resources to ensure delivery of timely and quality
execution of R1S priorities and objectives.

6.2.2.  The Contractor must provide a communications tool by which the Contractor and Government

team can chat and share information quickly.

6.2.3.  The Contractor must develop a “Product Roadmap” in conjunction with the Government.

a.  The Government assumes the role of “Product Owner” and will be responsible for: managing

and communicating with the stakeholder community; prioritizing the product backlog;
making business decisions rapidly; participating in iterative planning sessions; removing
obstacles to project success; approving and/or assisting in the creation of User Stories and
associated acceptance criteria; coordinating stakeholder involvement in User Acceptance
Testing (UAT); and advising the COR on contractor performance.

b.  The Government reserves the right to determine the schedule for what functionality is

prioritized and when it must be completed.

6.2.4.  During the Transition-in Period, functionality must be developed in sprint cycles.
6.2.5.  Robust system documentation must be developed and shared with the Government regarding the

system architecture, functionality, code annotations, user guides, etc.
a.  For each new requirement, the Contractor must develop and provide to the Government a
detailed plan of the agreed-upon functionality and what must be built to achieve that
functionality.

b.  The Contractor must propose a “Definition of Done”, which is the list of acceptance criteria
that must be met before user stories, and the associated system functionality, is accepted as a
deliverable.

6.2.6.  The Contractor must produce all pre-deployment, deployment, and post-deployment

implementation deliverables including but not limited to communication plans, implementation
plans and instructions, configuration documentation, detailed integrated deployment schedules,
site surveys, knowledge articles, and additional documents as required.

6.2.7.  The Contractor must provide support to develop, execute, and track all testing efforts to support
the end-to-end development, deployment, and maintenance of the solution. The Contractor must
work with designated Subject Matter Experts to develop, enhance, and maintain the necessary
testing artifacts, including test plans, test procedures and test scripts for all releases required
during the Period of Performance. These testing artifacts must be produced for each of the
defined test types/milestones supporting R1S.

6.2.8.  The Contractor must provide support in accordance with OMB Customer Service objectives and
reporting. The Contractor must offer end users multiple ways and opportunities to submit
feedback on the UI and UX. The Contractor must propose approaches to collecting, aggregating,
and analyzing all lines of feedback.  All sales channels must incorporate feedback mechanisms.

Draft R1S Support Services SOO

7

While offering opportunities to provide feedback, the Contractor must minimize disruptions in
the user workflow.

6.2.9.  The Contractor must develop and present at a Quarterly Program Management Review (PMR)

meeting with the R1S PMO regarding the performance of the R1S support services. Specific
topics and format will be agreed upon with the COR.

6.2.10.  The Contractor must develop and submit for Government approval a Quality Control Plan (QCP)

within 30 calendar days of the “go live” solution. Quality control documentation must be made
available to the Government throughout the period of performance for monitoring against the
Quality Assurance Surveillance Plan (QASP).

6.2.11.  The Contractor must submit a Monthly Performance Report, a detailed account of their monthly
contract performance in a manner that clearly and easily tracks back to the QASP. The Monthly
Performance Report must be submitted as an attachment to the Contractor’s monthly invoice.

6.2.12.  The Contractor must initiate an annual system audit at the close of each Government fiscal year.
The audit must be performed by an independent and licensed Certified Public Accountant (CPA)
and must focus on the entirety of the system controls, financial data, and transactional data
contained in the system for the most recently completed Government fiscal year. There is no
requirement to conduct successive comprehensive audits of previously audited fiscal years;
however, transactions from the most recent fiscal year which impact transactions and data from
previously audited data sets must be audited to ensure compliance with established accounting
procedures and business rules.
a.  Audit results must be provided to the R1S PMO no later than 60 calendar days after the close

of the Government fiscal year.

b.  The Contractor must address and resolve all audit findings and coordinate the resolution with

the R1S PMO.

6.2.13.  The Contractor must coordinate, communicate, develop, deliver, and assess training, training

materials, and training sessions to enable government users to confidently and efficiently utilize
all contractor-developed back-office tools and workflows within the reservation system. Training
demand varies widely in a cyclical pattern throughout the year, with peaks in the spring as
seasonal employees are being hired and decreases in the fall and winter when many facilities are
closed for the season.
a.  Training must be an ongoing program and not simply once per year.
b.  Training must also include train-the-trainer sessions.
c.  Training must employ a wide range of formats, including but not limited to live educational

sessions, narrative and visual resources, recorded videos, and more.

6.2.14.  The Contractor must develop and maintain a disaster recovery plan and business continuity plan
for the R1S solution that identifies the services, roles, responsibilities, and methodologies to be
used in the event of a system failure or disruption. The recovery approach must address a full
range of services covering the spectrum from partial loss of function or data for a brief amount of
time to a “worst-case” scenario in which a man-made, natural disaster, or IT failure results in the
loss of the entire IT enterprise. Services may be required during any timeframe from initial
declaration of a disaster to final recovery of all business processes and business functions.
6.2.15.  All developed materials, services, and systems under this contract must be 508-compliant.
6.2.16.  The Contractor must apportion sufficient support to special events (such as the White House
Easter Egg Roll and Christmas Tree Lighting), which may include on-site support, to ensure
successful execution of event logistics.

Constraints:
6.2.17.  The Government is the approving authority. The Contractor must not make decisions – strategic
or tactical – without the explicit approval of the designated Government authorities, such as the
COR or R1S PMO.

Draft R1S Support Services SOO

8

6.2.18.  Data must be provided to the Government team for data-driven decisions (security, price,

performance, availability, etc.).

6.2.19.  A minimally viable product (MVP) must be developed within 18 months or less in a development

environment based on an approved product roadmap. An MVP must:
a.  Have enough value that people are willing to use it, and it is relatable to the vision for the

core capabilities that are required at the end of the “Phase-in Period”.
Demonstrate enough future benefit to reduce the risk of releasing a product that is not viable.

b.  Provide a feedback loop to guide the future development of the system.
c.  Satisfy the requirements defined in “Basic System Requirements” and “Business Rules”

attachments.

6.2.20.  During the development of the MVP, the Contractor must conduct at least monthly meetings
showing progress against the MVP to ensure that the MVP will be ready within 18 months.

6.2.21.  The Government reserves the right, following the release of the MVP, to alter the required

functionality in support of the overall vision as implemented by an Agile methodology. These
changes will be approved by the Product Owner and, subsequently, the COR.

6.2.22.  The Government, at any time, has the right to periodically procure, at Government expense, the

services of an independent third-party Contractor to evaluate and analyze a wide variety of factors
associated with, but not limited to, the system, website interface, and user experience. The
Government, at its sole discretion, may choose to request the Contractor evaluate and/or
implement suggestions derived through this third-party process.

6.3  Transition

Objectives:
A.  No degradation of services or user experience occurs in the on-time transition from the current

contract to the new contract both for transition-in and transition out.

B.  Data is transitioned and accurate to ensure continuity of user experience between the contracts.

Additional Context and Known Requirements:
*Note that this is not inclusive of all requirements as the R1S services must continuously adapt to meet
the evolving needs of the program.

6.3.1. The Contractor must develop a draft transition-in plan for Government approval.
6.3.2. The Contractor must execute the approved transition-in plan, including reporting requirements to

ensure transition objectives are met.

6.3.3. The Contractor must document any lessons learned at the completion of the transition for future

transitions.

6.3.4. Legacy reservation and inventory information must be available to participating Agencies and/or

concessionaries via the Contractor’s reporting module.

6.3.5. The Contractor must develop a draft transition-out plan for Government approval.
6.3.6. The Contractor must execute the approved transition-out plan in full cooperation with the

Government and successor contractor.

Constraints:
6.3.7. No additional fees will be paid to the Contractor for existing reservations and existing contract data

transition.

6.3.8. The Government owns, and will provide to the offeror, all of the inventory, transaction and

customer data associated with Recreation.gov; however, for this procurement, the current
reservation system remains the sole property of the incumbent contractor.

Draft R1S Support Services SOO

9

6.3.9. The Government owns the recreation.gov and rec.gov domains and will continue to own those

domains. The Government will give the Contractor access to the domain for managing the website
and all connections between the website and its solution.

6.4  Hosting

Objectives:
A.  R1S services and the government’s R1S management tool are available 24x7x365, with the exception
of planned and agreed upon maintenance downtimes, for access by public and government users.

Additional Context and Known Requirements:
*Note that this is not inclusive of all requirements as the R1S services must continuously adapt to meet
the evolving needs of the program.

6.4.1.  The Contractor must host all services in a FedRAMP Moderate certified cloud-based hosting

environment.

6.5  Security and Data Management

Objectives:
A.  Data in transit and at rest is encrypted, secured, and protected in accordance with National Institute of

Standards and Technology (NIST) standards such that no data breach or exposure occurs.

B.  The R1S services are based on FedRAMP Moderate certified software.
C.  Personally Identifiable Information (PII) is protected in accordance with the Privacy Act/NIST

standards.

D.  Data is managed in accordance with the R1S System of Record Notice (SORN).
E.  All USDA IT security and data management requirements are adhered to. See Sections 9-13 below

and contract clauses for details.

Additional Context and Known Requirements:
*Note that this is not inclusive of all requirements as the R1S services must continuously adapt to meet
the evolving needs of the program.

6.5.1.  The system as a whole must satisfy all relevant federal IT security requirements and must earn an
Authority to Operate (ATO) from the U.S. Department of Agriculture prior to go-live.

6.5.2.  The system must use an approved single sign on and identity verification method, such as

login.gov.

6.5.3.  The system must be built on Zero Trust principles and require multi-factor authentication (MFA)

for all federal employees accessing the system.

6.5.4.  All system data must be handled and protected in accordance with all relevant Federal data

security and protection requirements.

6.5.5.  The Contractor must submit a Security Plan compliant with FedRAMP and other Federal

requirements/directives no later than 45 days after contract award.

a.  The Security Plan must be updated at least annually and submitted to the Government for

review no later than 1 February of each year of contract performance.

b.  The Contractor must submit interim updates to the Security Plan within thirty (30) days

of receiving an official request from the Government.

6.5.6.  The R1S service must act as the aggregation and distribution hub of record for all government-

owned federal recreation data. This data includes information relating to all recreation facilities,
including facilities and activities listed on Recreation.gov as ‘reservable’, as well as federal
recreation facilities and activities which are not reservable. This latter dataset is referred to as

Draft R1S Support Services SOO

10

RIDB data. The Contractor must provide an automated service to securely transfer RIDB data
from each agency’s Content Management System, populate, and store that data within the R1S
system.

6.5.7.  The most current RIDB data must be fully indexed, searchable and displayed in all relevant

interfaces of the consumer-facing Recreation.gov portal as appropriate, including, but not limited
to, maps and lists. The Contractor must also provide intuitive tools, including tokenized secure
APIs, for consumer-use to bulk download RIDB data in-whole, or in-part, in current common
unprotected and actionable file formats such as *.csv.  RIDB data must not include any customer
or transaction data considered to be Personally Identifiable Information (PII) under the Privacy
Act of 1974; 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

6.5.8.  The Contractor must adapt to changing data collection requirements and contribute to strategies
for analyzing and creatively displaying or presenting RIDB data that is relevant to stakeholders
and consumers and that supports the decision-making process. For example, live data about wait
times for on sales, heat maps displaying high occupancy dates, and same-day booking likelihood.
The contractor is encouraged to identify and recommend useful ways to analyze and display
consumer data to optimize travel inventory.

6.5.9.  The Contractor must develop, document and execute a stringent data back-up regimen to ensure
no system data is lost. System data as used in this context refers to all transactional and
reservation related data records, system user profiles, all data associated with reservable inventory
and all non-reservable information to include multimedia files, informational articles, etc.
6.5.10.  The Contractor must maintain, at a minimum, the most recent twenty-four (24) months’ worth of
transactional and reservation-related data in an “active” state such that Government system users
and Contractor Customer Support Personnel may query that information to produce reports,
resolve issues, etc. The Government must provide the Contractor with the most recent twenty-
four (24) months of transactional and reservation related data which the Contractor must maintain
for customer support purposes.

6.5.11.  All data Back-Ups and Archives must be stored in accordance with reigning industry best

practices and standards for Federal data retention to ensure the data remains viable, accessible
through non-proprietary means, safe and secure throughout the lifecycle of this contract. As
information becomes available, the Contractor must provide its information sources for standards
and “best practices” to the Government and the Government may provide further sources as they
become available.

6.5.12.  On a monthly basis, the Contractor must provide the Government with a cloud-based, electronic
data back-up relevant to reservations including but not limited to; customer information, reserved
dates, site information, and fees. A back-up of user profile data shall also be provided annually.
The data must be stored and delivered in a format approved by the COR. This back-up is to be
stored with Government COR separate from other backups.

Constraints:
6.5.13.  The system must be able to identify and flag any suspicious activity and ensure 97% of those
cases are reviewed and addressed within 10 business days to enable timely mitigation of any
risks. Flagged suspicious activity must have less than 1% false positives.
6.5.14.  Appropriate audit and security controls must be in place in day-to-day operations.

6.6  Reservation System and Services

Objectives:
A.  Users make and manage reservations using a modern platform that supports their needs in making

reservations and evolves to keep pace with industry standards and align with customer expectations.

B.  Government users and stakeholders (i.e., concessionaires, cooperators) have a modern, role-based

platform that provides the ability to easily maintain and update inventory, as appropriate.

Draft R1S Support Services SOO

11

C.  Users have 24x7x365 access to live agents and/or automated support tools to answer questions or

resolve challenges with R1S services.

Additional Context and Known Requirements:
*Note that this is not inclusive of all requirements as the R1S services must continuously adapt to meet
the evolving needs of the program. Additionally, the Business Rules attachment serves as a guide to
minimum functionality requirements for the reservation system.

6.6.1.  The Contractor must provide, maintain, and operate a secure, highly flexible and configurable

solution that can adapt quickly to changing operational requirements and customer expectations.
6.6.2.  The Contractor must provide, maintain, and operate an integrated and intuitive consumer-facing
reservation service and comprehensive suite of back-office inventory, reservation, and financial
management tools that support a wide variety of inventory and transaction types that are governed
by a complex network of business rules to manage reservations individually and en masse from
inception through fulfillment.

6.6.3.  The Contractor’s solution must include visuals to support end users. For example, maps are

essential to planning any activities in the outdoors, and today’s customers demand powerful map
visualization tools seamlessly integrated into the user interface of both the desktop and mobile
application versions of Recreation.gov. All maps must be geospatially relevant and keyed to
geospatial coordinates to include, but not be limited to, relevant facilities, reservable and non-
reservable items of recreation inventory (e.g. campsite), points of interest, facility amenities (e.g.
potable water hydrant) to be provided by the Government. Detailed Very High Resolution (VHR)
and High Resolution (HR) satellite imagery is a critical tool used by R1S customers when
planning visits to federal lands. All map visualization tools integrated into recreation.gov desktop
and mobile applications must provide users with the option of viewing satellite views of all maps.
Satellite imagery presented to users via both the desktop and mobile applications must be of a
Ground Sampling Distance (GSD) of 1 meter or less per pixel.

6.6.4.  The Contractor’s solution must provide end users with communications regarding their

transactions, including receipts, confirmation emails, reminder emails of upcoming reservations,
modification notices, cancellation notices, etc.

6.6.5.  The Contractor’s solution must include the ability to place “white label widgets” on federal

agency websites, by which end users are able to make reservations through R1S without needing
to navigate to recreation.gov.

6.6.6.  Currently supported inventory types include but are not limited to campsites, tickets, venues,

lotteries, permits, day passes, site-specific passes, individual activity passes and statutorily
mandated passes such as the pantheon of America the Beautiful Annual and Lifetime Passes.
6.6.7.  The Contractor’s solution must provide significant flexibility to rapidly add new inventory in
bulk or in isolated instances as well as new types of inventory governed by new business rules
and transaction types which participating Agencies have yet to identify.

6.6.8.  The service development, delivery, maintenance and enhancement must incorporate leading
information technology solutions and best practices to ensure maximum flexibility and rapid
response to emerging Agency business requirements, evolving security and threat landscapes, and
user experience feedback. Such best practices include, but are not limited to, agile development,
modular design, integrated testing and evaluation, continuous code deployment, etc.
6.6.9.  All consumer-facing and back-office user interfaces and workflows must be engineered and

designed to maximize ease of use, intuitively solicit inputs and calls for user action, and utilize
common and consistent vernacular to ensure a world-class user experience for all user groups
while embracing all relevant tenants of the US Digital Services Playbook available at:
https://playbook.usds.gov/.

6.6.10.  The Contractor must provide expertise in areas such as outdoor recreation, and travel and tourism,
must analyze the effectiveness of digital content for reaching target audiences, must make

Draft R1S Support Services SOO

12

recommendations to the PMO on ways to improve digital content, and must work collaboratively
with the Government on the development of new content to better engage consumers.

6.6.11.  The Contractor must provide the ability to create and manage multiple user roles and permissions
that allow and restrict access to various information in the system. Users of the system will
change frequently, and the system must provide the capability to terminate or change roles and
permissions both manually and automatically.

a.  As part of user management, the Contractor must develop an attestation process that

complies with requirements while minimizing user burden.

6.6.12.  Fast access to U.S.-based knowledgeable, human telephone support is critical to successful field
operations and a positive consumer experience. The Contractor must provide live human
telephone and chat-based technical support to users of the back-office (internal) component, and
live human telephone and chat-based customer support to users of the public-facing component of
the system. The operational hours of the live telephone and chat-based support services must be
sufficient to support users during a substantial portion of customary business hours in all U.S.
time zones. Current availability is 10am to 12am Eastern Time with closures on Thanksgiving
Day, Christmas Day, and New Year’s Day. This availability is expected to continue as a
minimum.

6.6.13.  In addition to live telephone and chat support offerings, the Contractor must provide tailored
online tools and information to assist each user group to accomplish system tasks.

6.6.14.  The Contractor must implement a comprehensive system for logging, tracking, escalating, and

reporting of Customer Service and Help Desk contacts to ensure resolution of each contact issue.
This Customer Service management system must support the creation and release of a follow-up
communication providing customers with a unique tracking number associated with their Support
Request as well as a summary of the issue and associated resolution actions. If an issue cannot be
resolved in a timely manner, these must be documented and reported to the COR for discussion
on resolution.

6.6.15.  The Contractor must develop, document and execute a comprehensive customer service training

program to ensure all customer service and help desk agents are fully trained and proficient on all
aspects of R1S services.

Constraints:
6.6.16.  The website must comply with federal website standards, such as the 21st Century Integrated

Digital Experience Act (IDEA), OMB Memo M-23-22, and standards found via
standards.digital.gov or predecessor website.

6.6.17.  The Contractor must engineer reliability and redundancy into the system (including access to all

data) in order to maintain system uptime and availability to all users at a level of 99.9886% which
equates to 60 minutes of unplanned downtime per year.

a.  An outage and unplanned downtime are defined as any amount of time the System is

not available and fails to perform its primary function and/or is not capable of
handling full user capacity.

b.  The Contractor must track and report all System downtime as part of their monthly

performance report.

c.  The Contractor must immediately notify the COR of any unplanned outages. This

initial notification is preliminary and is solely intended to make the Government
aware of the unplanned outage and the projected duration of the outage if available.
The Contractor’s number one priority during unplanned system outages must be to
restore the System to full operational capability.

d.  Once returned to full operational capability, the Contractor must prepare a detailed

written incident report describing the specific failure(s) which created the outage and
providing a critical analysis of the incidents, activities, environmental factors, etc.
which contributed to failure(s). The Contractor must detail the corrective actions

Draft R1S Support Services SOO

13

taken to return to full operational capability and clearly describe all preventative
actions taken to ensure future failures of a similar nature do not occur. The detailed
report must be sent to the COR within 10 business days.

6.6.18.  The Contractor must schedule planned system outages during periods at which the

Recreation.gov has historically shown the least user activity, such as the very early morning
hours, as to inconvenience system users as little as possible.

a.  For planned system outages with an expected duration of more than 10 minutes, the

Contractor must display a readily visible notice on top-level customer-facing
Recreation.gov system pages advising them of the date, time and duration of the
planned system outage. Such a notice shall be posted and visible to System users for
at least the 3-hour period immediately preceding the outage.
6.6.19.  The Contractor must request, in writing, approval from the Government for all planned system

outages, regardless of the expected duration of the outage, at least forty-eight (48) hours prior to
taking Recreation.gov down.

a.  Planned system outages will not be counted against the sixty (60) minutes of

unplanned downtime described above. If the Contractor fails to provide the required
notice forty-eight (48) hours preceding the onset of the outage, the R1S PMO may
apply the downtime to the 60 minutes of unplanned downtime described above.

6.6.20.  The toll-free telephone number and any websites will be provided by and must be retained by the

Government for future use. The Contractor is solely responsible for all service transfer, service
activation, and recurring monthly service charges associated with the use of the Government
provided Toll Free telephone number(s). The Contractor is solely responsible for all
telecommunications hardware and software required to route, track, and manage Customer
Support calls in an effective and efficient manner.

6.6.21.  All external consumer-facing and internal back-office user interface components and output

products must comply with all applicable requirements of Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act
of 1973 (29 U.S.C. § 794d).

6.6.22.  Some passes and tickets must be offered free of charge. For example, five of the eight

Interagency Passes (IAPs) are free. This will be indicated in the CLIN structure, but may change
as new inventory is added.

6.6.23.  IAPs must be provided both digitally and in physical form. The Contractor is responsible for

delivering the digital IAP. The Government is responsible for supplying and shipping the physical
IAP.

6.6.24.  The system must support manual and offline use and validation of physical and digital passes and

components, often in very remote locations, including anti-counterfeit measures, and maintain
accurate linkage to a passholder’s digital account.

6.6.25.  Once purchased through the system, a digital ticket or pass must be available to the user in no

more than 30 seconds.

6.6.26.  The Government anticipates that most existing facilities in the program will continue to use the

reservation service in the future. However, circumstances may dictate the removal of certain
facilities. The Government is not liable to replace these or add additional inventory to compensate
for the loss of inventory at any time.

6.6.27.  In the event that unforeseen circumstances, natural or man-made, mandate the closure of
locations/facilities/activities/etc. for which there are active reservations in the system, the
Contractor must work proactively with reservation holders to first reschedule or cancel (if
necessary) active reservations at the reservation holders’ discretion.

a.  No additional transaction fees or CLINs shall be charged as a result of reservation
changes or cancellations as a result of Government-initiated closures, regardless of
the driving force behind the closure.

b.  The Contractor must not penalize a customer for Government closure of facilities

whether that closure is due to an act of nature or man-made.

Draft R1S Support Services SOO

14

6.7  Financial Transaction Management

Objectives:
A.  Financial transactions are processed using modern, secure technology and managed precisely to

ensure accuracy and audit-worthiness.

B.  Transactions meet Treasury and Payment Card Industry (PCI) requirements.
C.  The system automatically settles and reconciles transactions.
D.  The system’s reporting platform provides standard and ad hoc reports and dashboards accessible by

the government.

Additional Context and Known Requirements:
*Note that this is not inclusive of all requirements as the R1S services must continuously adapt to meet
the evolving needs of the program.

6.7.1. The Contractor must accept all payment methods processed by the U.S. Treasury and the Bureau of

Fiscal Service’s designated credit card processor (currently Worldpay) or lockbox (currently US
Bank). Example payment methods include but are not limited to Visa, Mastercard, Discover,
American Express, Apple Pay, debit cards, cash, and check.

6.7.2. Payments must be accepted through all sales channels such as the ecommerce website, mobile app,
contact center, and field locations. Field locations shall support modern best practice payment
methods such as tap to pay, Euro, Mastercard, Visa (EMV) terminals, and offline scan and pay
capabilities.

6.7.3. The Contractor must provide, manage, and maintain EMV terminals.
6.7.4. When processing credit and debit card transactions, the Contractor must comply with the Treasury
Financial Manual (TFM), Part 5, Chapter 7000, Credit and Debit Card Collection Transactions
rules and security requirements. Security requirements include but are not limited to Payment Card
Industry Data Security Standards (PCI DSS), EMV terminals for in person transactions, encryption,
and tokenization.

6.7.5. The Contractor is responsible for processing chargebacks as directed by the R1S PMO.
6.7.6. The Contractor must reconcile all financial transactions (electronic and paper) by automatically
obtaining financial data from the designated banks and matching all financial data to the
appropriate transaction record and by automatically matching all payment
failures/defaults/denials/charge backs/etc. to the appropriate transaction record.

6.7.7. The transaction reconciliation process must be automated to the maximum extent practical and must
provide Government personnel with the ability to adjust system data as appropriate to match the
financial data obtained from the designated bank within the guidelines of GAAP and prudent
system financial controls to prevent the misappropriation of system funds.

6.7.8. The Contractor must provide reporting tools that pertain to all actions within the system including
reservation data, customer and internal user accounts, analytics, system performance. The
Contractor must provide system functionality that allows Contractor and Government personnel the
ability to produce and/or request custom reports.

Constraints:
6.7.9.  All collections are to be deposited in a designated U.S. Treasury account. Foreign currency is not

accepted.

6.7.10.  The Contractor must resolve any exceptions or discrepancies between the credit card processor
data and the reservation system. The R1S PMO will be responsible for resolving any exceptions
or discrepancies for lockbox transactions. Adequate system controls must exist to easily identify
and resolve any unreconciled transactions.

Draft R1S Support Services SOO

15

6.7.11.  The R1S PMO will be responsible for the distribution of funds from the designated U.S. Treasury

accounts as appropriate to all participating agencies, concessionaires, etc.

6.8  Outreach and Communications

Objectives:
A.  Communications and outreach reinforce the R1S brand and participating agency missions and

outreach objectives and reach desired audiences for action or awareness.

Additional Context and Known Requirements:
*Note that this is not inclusive of all requirements as the R1S services must continuously adapt to meet
the evolving needs of the program.

6.8.1.  The Contractor must develop an annual outreach and communication strategy in collaboration

with the government strategic communication team within the R1S PMO and in consultation with
agency representatives and leadership.

a.  This strategy must be monitored for effectiveness and updated annually.

6.8.2.  The Contractor must identify and produce outreach materials needed to support and deliver
tactics within the strategy (i.e., brochures, videos, stickers, branded materials, etc.).

6.8.3.  The Contractor must propose and execute measurement methods to ensure the efficacy of goals

and objectives.

6.8.4.  The Contractor must employ techniques to ensure Recreation.gov is returned at or near the top of

relevant search engine results (Search Engine Optimization).

6.8.5.  The Contractor must develop, produce, and provide a wide variety of outreach materials, color

schemes and slogans/taglines to achieve the overall outreach goals.

6.8.6.  The Contractor must provide comprehensive tools for sharing information to all registered system
users. Notifications must be configurable in both content, recipient group, and means of
transmission to include, but not be limited to, broadcast web messaging, push notifications to
mobile app users, e-mail, and SMS/Text.

6.8.7.  The Contractor must employ modern industry-best tools to seek customer feedback from all user

types, conduct comprehensive analysis of that feedback to identify pain points for users, and
inform decisions for continually improving the user experience.

6.8.8.  The R1S PMO represents the interests of eight federal agencies. Keeping those agencies informed
is critical to the success of the program. The Contractor must support the R1S in developing data
products to support and inform participating agencies as required.

6.8.9.  The Contractor must review, edit, format, and keep current all Government-provided web content

for publishing.

Constraints:
6.8.10.  The Government will review and approve all content posted through public-facing channels to

include, but not limited to the website, mobile app, social channels, email, and newsletter
distribution.

6.8.11.  The Government will solely own and retain all rights to any and all R1S support services

branding to include, but not be limited to, wireframes, design assets, original source documents,
Photoshop files, all logos, names, tag-lines and slogans associated with the R1S support services
regardless of whether those branding items were developed by Contractor or Government
personnel or whether those items were developed under this R1S support services or some other
contract vehicle.

6.9  Ancillary Support Services

Draft R1S Support Services SOO

16

Objectives:
A.  Telecommunications systems and services enable access in even the most remote locations.

Additional Context and Known Requirements:
*Note that this is not inclusive of all requirements as the R1S services must continuously adapt to meet
the evolving needs of the program.

6.9.1.  The Contractor must provide telecommunications data services ensuring recreation facilities

which opt-in to use these services have internet access.

6.9.2.  The Contractor must provide separately priced telecommunications support, such as satellite

internet, to such locations. This includes, but is not limited to, procurement/lease/rental,
installation, operation, maintenance and removal of high-speed, data-quality telecommunications
equipment and services.

6.9.3.  The Contractor’s solution must have sufficient bandwidth and throughput capacity to enable

participating locations to fully utilize all R1S system features and capabilities.

6.9.4.  As better alternatives become available in the market, the Contractor must notify the COR

through a letter, deliverable, or technology plan. However, once the CO and COR decide on a
telecommunications alternative, the CO will request a formal proposal.

6.9.5.  USACE is by far the primary user of Ancillary Support Services. While much of the need for this
service is determined by the remoteness of the location, there are several other factors which may
drive a location to participate in these services; such as internal agency IT policy and regulations,
internal agency infrastructure budgets, etc. For example, a facility gate house may be 100 yards
away from another agency structure which has dedicated T1 access, however the agency has a
strict prohibition on Wi-Fi being installed on the agency network and there are no IT
infrastructure funds available to run cable to the gate house. If the location wants to participate,
they will need the services defined herein. Additionally, since these data services remain entirely
separate from all Agency networks, these data service solutions may be appealing for creating
secure Wi-Fi networks for agency employee mobile devices if the Contractor R1S solution
contains value added mobile friendly services for field personnel.

7.0 Deliverables / Schedule

The following deliverables are required as part of this contract:

To Be Completed in a Future Version

8.0 Attachments

To Be Completed in a Future Version

9.0 Security Violations Using Government Equipment
Any Contractor violating USDA security policies, guidelines, procedures, or requirements while using
Government equipment or while accessing the USDA network may, without notice, have their computer
and network access terminated, be escorted from their work location, and have their physical access to
their work location removed at the discretion of the CO/COR.  The CO/COR will notify the Contractor of
the security violation and request immediate removal of the contract employee.

10.0 Data Rights
The Government will have unlimited data rights in accordance with the definition shown in 52.27-14
Rights in Data-General (May 2014) to all data, software, technical data, etc., as stated in the clause. The

Draft R1S Support Services SOO

17

Government will retain rights to all intellectual property produced in the course of developing, deploying,
maintaining, training, using, and supporting USDA/FS HRM.

10.1 Non-Disclosure Agreement
Due to the sensitive nature of the data and information being worked with on a daily basis, all Contractor
personnel assigned to the contract are required to complete the Government provided non-disclosure
agreement prior to contract assignment to ensure information that is considered sensitive or proprietary is
not compromised.  Signed non-disclosure agreements must be provided in accordance with direction from
provided by the COR/designee.

10.2 Data Access
The Contractor may be required to have access to live production data for the performance of this
contract. Any records and data or information the Contractor may have access to may be highly sensitive
and confidential.  The Contractor must not divulge or misuse any information about the files, data
processing activities or functions, user IDs or passwords, or any other information that may be gained, to
anyone who is not authorized to have access to such information.   It is the Contractor’s responsibility to
ensure that other persons have the proper authorization.

11.0 Privacy

•  The Contractor has no reasonable expectation of privacy regarding any communication or data

transiting or stored on this information system.  At any time, the government may for any lawful
government purpose monitor, intercept, search and seize any communication or data transiting or
stored of this information system

•  Any communication or data transiting or stored on this information system may be disclosed or

used for any lawful government purpose

•  The Contractor’s consent is final and irrevocable.  The Contractor may not rely on any statements
or informal policies purporting to provide any expectation of privacy regarding communications
on this system, whether oral or written, by the Contractor’s supervisor or any other official,
except USDA’s Chief Information Officer

The Contractor shall submit deliverables that are accessible under Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act
of 1973, as amended.

12.0 Section 508 – Accessibility of Information and Communications Technology
This contract vehicle is subject to Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 749d) as
amended by the Workforce Investment Act of 1998 (P.L. 105-220). The Revised Section 508 Standards,
which consist of 508 Chapters 1 and 2 (Appendix A), along with Chapters 3 through 7 (Appendix C),
contain scoping and technical requirements for information and communication technology (ICT) to
ensure accessibility and usability by individuals with disabilities. Compliance with these standards is
mandatory for Federal agencies subject to Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended (29
U.S.C. 794d).

Each ICT product or service furnished under this contract shall comply with the Revised Section 508 ICT
Accessibility Standards at a minimum, as specified in the contract. If any furnished product or service is
determined to be noncompliant, the Contracting Officer will notify the Contractor in writing. The
Contractor shall, without charge to the Government, remediate or replace the noncompliant products or
services within a specified timeframe as determined by the Government in writing. If such remediation or
replacement is not completed within the time specified, the Government shall have the following
recourses:

1.  Cancellation of the contract, delivery, task order, purchase, or line item without termination

liabilities; or

Draft R1S Support Services SOO

18

2.  In the case of custom ICT being developed by a contractor for the Government, the Government
shall have the right to have any necessary changes made or repairs performed by itself or by
another firm for the noncompliant ICT, with the contractor liable for reimbursement to the
Government for any expenses incurred thereby.

The contractor must ensure all noncompliant ICT products and services are provided pursuant to
extensive market research and exhibit the highest level of compliance while satisfying the contract
requirements.

For every ICT product or service accepted under this contract by the Government that does not comply
with the Revised Section 508 Accessibility Standards, the contractor shall, at the discretion of the
Government, remediate or upgrade the item with a compliant equivalent product or service, if
commercially available and cost neutral, on either a contract specified refresh cycle for the product or
service, or on a contract effective option/renewal date, whichever shall occur first.

Section 508 Compliance
Vendors, contractors, and their respective ICT products and services shall comply with the following
standards, policies, and procedures. In the event of conflicts between the referenced documents and this
contract vehicle, the contract vehicle shall take precedence.
1.  Revised Section 508 ICT Accessibility Standards
2.  Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act as amended (29 U.S.C. 794d)
3.  Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) Subpart 39.2
4.  USDA Section 508 Departmental Regulation

Additionally, all contract deliverables are subject to these standards.
All ICT products and services, regardless of format, must conform to the applicable Section 508 standards
to allow Federal employees and members of the public with disabilities equivalent access to and use of
information and data provided to those without disabilities.

All contractors, sub-contractors, and consultants are responsible for preparing or posting content must
comply with the applicable Section 508 accessibility standards and, where applicable, those set forth in
the referenced policy or standards document. Remediation of any noncompliant ICT or materials as set
forth in this contract vehicle shall be the responsibility of the contractor, sub-contractor, or consultant.
According to the Access Board’s Section 508 Scoping Requirements The following Section 508
provisions apply to the products and/or services identified in this contract vehicle:

•  C202 Functional Performance Criteria: Where the requirements in Chapters 4 and 5 do not
address one or more functions of telecommunications or customer premises equipment, the
functions not addressed shall conform to the Functional Performance Criteria specified in Chapter
3.

•  C203 Electronic Content: Electronic content that is integral to the use of telecommunications or
customer premises equipment shall conform to the most current WCAG Level A and Level AA
Success Criteria and Conformance Requirements.

•  C204 Hardware: Where components of telecommunications equipment and customer premises
equipment are hardware, and transmit information or have a user interface, those components
shall conform to applicable requirements in Chapter 4.

•  C205 Software: Where software is integral to the use of telecommunications functions of

telecommunications equipment or customer premises equipment and has a user interface, such
software shall conform to C205 and the applicable requirements in Chapter 5.
WCAG Conformance: User interface components, as well as the content of platforms and
applications shall conform to the most current WCAG Level A and Level AA Success Criteria
and Conformance Requirements.

Draft R1S Support Services SOO

19

•  C206 Support Documentation and Services: Where support documentation and services and
provided for telecommunications equipment and customer premises equipment, manufacturers
shall ensure that such documentation and services conform to Chapter 6 and are made available
upon request at no additional charge.

In addition, vendors and contractors shall comply with the standards, policies, and procedures below for
all ICT pursuant to this contract:

•  For Custom ICT Development Services, the vendor or contractor shall ensure the ICT fully
conforms to the applicable Revised Section 508 standards prior to delivery and before final
acceptance.

•  For Installation, Configuration, and Integration Services, the vendor or contractor shall not
install, configure, or integrate the equipment and software in a way that reduces the level of
conformance with the applicable Revised Section 508 standards.

•  For Maintenance, Upgrades, and Replacements, the vendor or contractor shall ensure
maintenance upgrades, substitutions, and replacements do not reduce the original level of
conformance with the applicable Revised Section 508 standards at the time of the contract award.

•  Service Personnel are ensured by the vendor or contractor to possess the knowledge, skills, and
ability necessary to address the applicable Revised Section 508 standards and shall provide
supporting documentation upon request.

•  When providing Hosting Services, the vendor or contractor shall not reduce the existing level of
conformance of the electronic content with the applicable Revised Section 508 standards.
•  When purchasing ICT where 1) Section 508 validation is not possible prior to award, 2) the ICT

will be changed after the award, or 3) ICT will be hosted in a third-party environment, the vendor
or contractor shall test and validate the ICT solution for conformance to the Revised Section 508
standards, in accordance with the required testing methods as defined by the agency.

•  The vendor or contractor shall document and maintain information regarding the measures taken to
ensure compliance with the applicable requirements. This documentation includes but is not
limited to testing records, product demonstrations, and reported defects by end users and testers.

•  Prior to acceptance, the vendor or contractor shall provide an Accessibility Conformance Report

(ACR) for each ICT item that is developed, updated, and/or configured for the agency, and when
product substitutions are offered. The ACR should be based on the latest version of the Voluntary
Product Accessibility Template (VPAT) provided by the Information Technology Industry Council (ITI). To be
considered for award, an ACR must be submitted for each ICT item, and must be completed
according to the instructions provided by the ITI.
Note: A supplemental ACR may be required if the agency has additional or stricter accessibility
requirements than what is outlined in the VPAT.

•

•  Prior to acceptance, the agency reserves the right to require a full working demonstration of the
completed ICT item to demonstrate conformance to the agency’s accessibility requirements in
addition to independent testing to validate.
In the case of non-compliance where the vendor or contractor claims its products and/or services
satisfy the applicable Revised Section 508 standards specified in the contract vehicle, the
contracting officer will promptly inform the vendor or contractor in writing of the non-
compliance. The vendor or contractor shall, at no cost to the agency, repair or replace the non-
compliant products or services within the period specified by the contracting officer.

All Information and Communications Technology (ICT) subject to the Revised Section 508 standards will
be evaluated for Section 508 conformance and usability. The test must be administered by a Federal
Section 508 Testing Center. All maintenance for ICT that requires upgrades, modifications, installations,
repairs, and purchases shall adhere to the Revised Section 508 standards.

Draft R1S Support Services SOO

20

13. Information Technology Procedure
13.1 Applicability of Standard Forest Service Information Technology Contract Security Language
to Acquisitions.

Based upon the type(s) of IT products and services (Column B) stated in the acquisition
document, the table specifies which sections of the standard IT security language (shown in
Column D) the contractor is required to comply with.

Definitions for principal terms used are located at the bottom of the table.

14.0 Continuity of Operations (COOP)/Disaster Recovery
The Contractor should propose their approach to maintaining access to the solution once in the production
environment including, but not limited to, system performance standards, data backup/restore, COOP, and
disaster recovery capabilities and strategy.  The proposed strategy should include that, in the event of a
COOP or disaster recovery event, the Contractor will facilitate and manage a coordinated effort with the
Government to track the event and its impact and bring services back online as soon as feasible.  An
assessment of the impact and proposed mitigation strategies should be provided to the Government.

15.0 IPv6 Requirements
Compliance with internet protocol version 6 (ipv6) in acquiring information technology

Any system, hardware, software, firmware or networked component (voice, video or data) developed,
procured or acquired in support or performance of this contract shall be capable of transmitting, receiving,
processing, forwarding and storing digital information across system boundaries utilizing system packets
that are formatted in accordance with commercial standards of Internet Protocol (IP) version 6 (IPv6) as
set forth in the USGv6 Profile (NIST Special Publication 500-267) and corresponding declarations of
conformance defined in the USGv6 Test Program. In addition, this system shall maintain interoperability
with IPv4 systems and provide at least the same level of performance and reliability capabilities of IPv4
products:

•  Specifically, any new IP product or system developed, acquired, or produced must:
Interoperate with both IPv6 and IPv4 systems and products, and

?
?  o Have available Contractor/vendor IPv6 technical support for development and

implementation and fielded product management.

•  As IPv6 evolves, the Contractor commits to upgrading or providing an appropriate migration path

for each item developed, delivered, or utilized at no additional cost to the Government.

•  The Contractor shall provide technical support for both IPv4 and Ipv6.
•  Any system or software must be able to operate on networks supporting Ipv4, Ipv6 or one that

supports both.

•  Any product whose non-compliance is discovered and made known to the Contractor within
one year after acceptance shall be upgraded, modified, or replaced to bring it into compliance
at no additional cost to the Government.

COLUMN
A

COLUMN B

Use Case
(row)

Type of IT Products
or Services

COLUMN C

COLUMN D

Elaboration

Applicable
Sections of
User
Appendix B -
Standard FS
IT Contract

Draft R1S Support Services SOO

21

Security
Language

Reference attached:
FY25_SA-4-9-AU-
16-SR-5-8-12

6, 9

1, 2, 6, 9

6, 9

1, 2, 3, 6, 9

1, 3, 4, 6, 9

1, 2, 3, 6, 9

H1

H2

SW1

SW2

Hardware
Product – strictly
COTS
(commercial-off-
the-shelf)
hardware

Hardware
Product –
physical or
logical access
required

Software
Product –
strictly COTS
(commercial-
off-
the-shelf) software

Software Product -
-
customized
COTS

SW3

Custom
Software
Development

SW3a

Custom
Software
Development
w/support

No hardware configuration,
software, or external information
service is needed from the
vendor.
>> EXAMPLE(S): laptop,
desktop computers; smartphones,
tablets; physical servers; physical
networking devices (e.g., routers,
switches)
As part of installing or
configuring, and/or maintaining
IT hardware, the vendor will
need physical access to FS
premises / facilities, and/or
access to FS information or
networks.
FS is licensing the software;
FS/USDA personnel will install,
configure and maintain the
software, on equipment owned or
operated by FS (e.g., desktop,
laptop, server,
mobile devices) without any
customization.
FS is licensing the software;
vendor personnel will install,
customize or configure the
software on equipment owned
or operated on behalf of FS (e.g.,
desktop, laptop, server, mobile
devices).
FS is tasking the vendor to design
and build software to FS unique
requirements and specifications.
FS personnel
will install, configure, and/or
maintain the SW on equipment
owned or operated on behalf of
FS).
FS is tasking the vendor to design
and build software to FS unique
requirements and specifications.
Vendor

Draft R1S Support Services SOO

22

SW4

Software as a
Service
(SaaS)

ES1

External System
- Cloud

see External
System -
Cloud

1, 2, 3, 4, 5,
6, 9
(plus 7 when
applicable)

personnel will install, configure
and/or maintain the SW on equipment
owned or operated on behalf of FS).

FS is licensing any software that
is not installed on, and run from,
FS equipment or centers; in other
words, the application and/or data
are accessed over the Internet
>> EXAMPLES: Adobe Cloud, Box
FS use of any IT system or
services whose functionality
relies on any form of cloud
model to function (IaaS, PaaS,
SaaS).
>> NOTE – the cloud system or
services these may be
provided through private
(commercial) entities, or other
government entities

Definitions

1. Hardware. The material physical components of a system (see NIST SP 800-53 Rev5).
Examples include, but are not limited to, laptops, desktops, servers, routers, mobile
devices, peripheral devices, etc.

2. Software. The term “software” includes firmware, operating systems, applications,

and application services (e.g., cloud-based software), as well as products containing
software (see OMB M-22-18).

3. (LMR) Ancillary hardware generally includes such items as components for radio control,

testing, power systems or transmission systems.

4.  An external service is an external entity that provides a service that requires access to FS
information.

5. An external system is a system that is implemented outside of the authorization boundary
of the FS system (i.e., a service that is used by, but not part of, the FS system) and for
which the FS typically has no direct control over the application of required security and
privacy controls, supply chain, or the assessment of security and privacy control
effectiveness. Examples of external systems are service-oriented architectures (SOAs), a
cloud-based system, or data center operations. A cloud-based system is software,
infrastructure, or platform made available to users on demand via the Internet from a
cloud service provider (CSP).

Draft R1S Support Services SOO

23

6. NIST defines Internet of Things (IoT) devices as those that have at least one transducer
(sensor or actuator) for interacting directly with the physical world and at least one
network interface (e.g., Ethernet, WiFi, Bluetooth) for interfacing with the digital world.

7.   Many IoT devices constitute Operational Technology (OT), defined by NIST as

“[p]rogrammable systems or devices that interact with the physical environment (or
manage devices that interact with the physical environment). These systems/devices detect
or cause a direct change through the monitoring and/or control of devices, processes, and
events. Examples include industrial control systems, building management systems, fire
control systems, and physical access control mechanisms.”

Draft R1S Support Services SOO

24




---

# Source: 3. Draft-Sections-LM.pdf

Recreation One Stop
Support Services
Recreation.gov

Draft Sections L and M

April 28, 2026

Section L: Submission Instructions Provided to Offerors

3.1 Guidelines and Formatting
The following is established as the specific information and format required for any vendor
submission. Incomplete proposals are not acceptable. Each offeror must submit one complete
electronic submission to the CO via email.  Physical submissions will not be accepted.

Questions Due Date and Time
Phase I Due Date and Time

XX/XX/2026 by 5pm ET
XX/XX/2026 by 5pm ET

Any submission in response to this solicitation must be in compliance with the terms and
conditions outlined in the solicitation and attachments. All claimed capabilities to meet the
requirements must be realistic and are subject to verification by the Government. Non-
conformance with these instructions may result in rejection of the submission, unfavorable
evaluation, or being deemed ineligible for award.

To aid in the evaluation process, submissions must be clear, concise, comprehensive, and must
include sufficient detail for effective evaluation and for substantiating the validity of stated
claims. Submissions must not simply rephrase or restate the Government's requirements but must
provide convincing rationale and examples to address how the vendor intends to meet these
requirements. Offerors must assume that the Government has no prior knowledge of their
experience and will base its evaluation on the information presented in the submission.

Submissions must be single-spaced, on 8.5” by 11” paper, have a minimum of one-inch margins
and not less than 12-point font for text, 9-point font for tables and 8-point font for graphics.
Tables and graphics may be landscape. All other text must be portrait, double-sided print.
Offerors must number each page. All submissions must be submitted in either MS Word, MS
Excel, or a searchable PDF.

3.1.1 Procurement Phases
The Government is using a multi-step process with the following voluntary and mandatory
down-selects. An Offeror must submit Phase 1 to be eligible for Phase 2.

Phase
Phase 1: Corporate Experience

Phase 2: Virtual Oral Presentation and On-
the-Spot Demonstration

Down-Select at End of Phase
Voluntary. Following evaluation of the Phase
1 submission, the Government will provide
notices to Offerors recommending if the
Offeror should or should not proceed to Phase
2. Offerors will be provided at least three
weeks between when the Government issues
notices for Phase 1 and when Phase 2 Oral
Presentations will occur. Notices may provide
further information to Offerors on
communications post-notification.
Mandatory Down-Select. Following
evaluation of Phase 2, the Government will

R1S Support Services - Draft

2

Phase

Phase 3: Technical Approach, Management
and Staffing, Past Performance, PWS, QASP,
Pricing

Down-Select at End of Phase
issue notices to the Offeror(s) informing them
of the Government’s decision on
advancement or failure to advance to Phase 3.
Any Offeror advancing to Phase 3 will be
given at least three weeks from notification to
due date of Phase 3.
N/A

4.1 Compliance
3.2 Volumes and Page Limits
The Offeror’s response to this solicitation must comply with the following format and
submission requirements. All responses must be submitted in the following volume format:

Phase 1
Volume I: Transmittal Cover Letter & Certifications
Volume II: Corporate Experience

Phase 2
Virtual, Live Product Demo; Questions & Answers

Phase 3
Volume III: Technical Approach
Volume IV: Management and Staffing
Volume V: Performance Work Statement (PWS)
Volume VI: Quality Assurance Surveillance Plan (QASP)
Volume VII: Pricing

Offerors must not combine any volumes of their response. Offerors must not include
pricing information in any volume other than price.

The following table outlines the specific page requirements for each volume. All page limits
exclude the Cover Page, Table of Contents, and additional pages as described below.

Phase 1

Volume Title

Transmittal Cover Letter

Volume
I

II

Corporate Experience

Volume

Phase 2

Title

Page Limits

None
To be indexed with a
table of contents
10

Page Limits

R1S Support Services - Draft

3

N/A

Virtual Oral Presentation and On-the-Spot
Demonstration

N/A

Volume
III
IV

Phase 3

Title

Technical Approach
Management and Staffing

V
VI

Past Performance
Performance Work Statement (PWS)

VII

Quality Assurance Surveillance Plan (QASP)

VIII

Pricing

Page Limits

50
15 (excluding Key
Personnel Resumes
and Key Personnel
Position Descriptions)
10
No Page Limit; use
template provided
No Page Limit; use
template provided
Narrative limited to 20
pages; No page limit
on small business
subcontracting plan

3.3 Phase 1: Transmittal Cover Letter (Volume 1)
The offeror’s transmittal and cover letter for the proposal must contain the name, phone number
and email address of the person to be contacted concerning any matter related to the solicitation.

Include the following in this section:

•  Point of Contact (Name, email, phone) for the representative the government is to contact

with questions regarding the proposal.
•  Company name and mailing address.
•  UEI SAM number.
•  Offerors must be registered and active in the SAM database.  If registration is not active
at the time of receipt of proposals, the offeror is not eligible for award.  It is the sole
responsibility of the offeror to complete SAM registration.  Offerors may obtain
information on registration at https://sam.gov and/or https://www.acquisition.gov.

•  Date submitted and proposal expiration date. All proposals must be valid for at least 365

days after the solicitation close date.

Additional Required Documents (Each to be submitted as attachments to the Cover Letter)

•  Exceptions/assumptions to the terms and conditions of this solicitation package must be
identified on a separate page within the cover letter submission. Exceptions/assumptions
to the terms and conditions may disqualify your submittal for award consideration.

•

If no exceptions/assumptions to the terms and conditions of this solicitation package are
taken by the offeror, then a separate written statement must be made affirming this.

R1S Support Services - Draft

4

•  Acknowledgment of any solicitation amendments issued by the Government.

Amendments can be acknowledged by Completed SF 33 with original/manually or digital
applied signature, including acknowledgement of any solicitation amendments issued by
the Government. Acknowledgement of amendments may also be accomplished by a
signed statement identifying each amendment by number and acknowledging they were
considered in the preparation of the proposal.

•  Representations and Certifications of the prime Offeror.

•  Proof of FedRAMP Moderate certification for the Offeror’s solution.

3.4 Phase 1:  Corporate Experience (Volume II)
The Offeror must provide a detailed description of prior experience and expertise for no less than
one but no more than three projects within the past five years from date of solicitation issuance.
Offerors must detail how each corporate experience example correlates in size, scope, and
complexity to the requirements in the Statement of Objectives (SOO) and SOO attachments. At
least one of the projects must be from the proposed prime Offeror performing as the prime
contractor. Corporate experience is not limited to federal contracts.

For each project, the Offeror must provide the following information:

1.  Contract or Project Name
2.  Contract Number
3.  Customer/Client Organization
4.  Contract Pricing Type (e.g. fixed price, time and materials, etc.)
5.  Total Contract Value
6.  Period of Performance
7.  Project Description: The Offeror must describe the key objectives of the project,

including a brief overview of the scope and objectives.

8.  Relevancy: Describe how the example is relevant in scope and complexity to the SOO

and SOO attachments.

In addition to the written narrative, the Offeror must provide a link to a video, no longer than 5
minutes in duration, that shows the solutions, systems, and or services referenced in the three
projects.

3.5 Phase 2: Virtual Oral Presentation and On-the-Spot Demonstration
(Volume N/A)
The Contracting Officer will schedule a virtual oral presentations. Four hours will be provided
for each presentation, exclusive of breaks.

Of the four-hour presentation period, Offerors may use three of the hours as they deem most
advantageous to describe their proposed solution/approach to delivering the requirements of the
SOO and the SOO attachments. It is required that individuals presenting be those identified as
Key Personnel and/or senior company management, including any major subcontractors. Oral
presentations will be recorded by the Government. The purpose of these presentations is to allow
the Government to better understand the proposed solution/approach to delivering the

R1S Support Services - Draft

5

requirements of the SOO and the SOO attachments. The four-hour period is inclusive of one
hour of Government-led questions based on the Offeror’s presentation.

Following the virtual oral presentation, the Offeror will then be given prompts by the
Government to see how the proposed solution works in real time as part of an on-the-spot
demonstration of the solution. General categories of interest for the on-the-spot demonstration
will be provided five business days in advance of the presentation. Specific prompts will not be
provided in advance. Prompts will be based on the SOO and the overarching functionality
described in the Business Rules attachment. Offeror should anticipate an hour for the on-the-spot
demonstration.

3.6 Phase 3: Technical Approach (Volume III)
The Offeror must detail its understanding of the R1S mission, objectives, and constraints as
defined in the SOO and SOO attachments, and must detail the proposed solution, methodology,
and technical innovations that will contribute to successful project implementation. The Offeror
must describe its approach to achieving the performance objectives described in the SOO.

3.7 Phase 3: Management and Staffing (Volume IV)
The Offeror must detail its management approach, organizational structure, staffing plan, and
Key Personnel to successfully achieve the objectives. The Offeror must describe how the Offeror
will integrate subcontractors and describe the framework for program oversight, decision-
making, and escalation procedures. The Management Approach must include how risks will be
identified, tracked, and mitigated throughout contract execution. The Staffing Plan must include
staffing levels and skill mixes to meet the requirements. The Offeror must identify all Key
Personnel positions in alignment with the Offeror’s technical approach. The Offeror must
provide resumes for each Key Personnel (included as an annex to this volume) which include
Name and title; proposed position and functional role; education, certifications, and relevant
training; and summary of relevant experience. Each resume is limited to two pages. In addition
to the Key Personnel resumes, the Offeror must include a Position Description for each Key
Personnel position that includes the minimum qualifications for that position.

3.8 Phase 3: Past Performance (Volume V)
The Offeror must submit up to three past performance examples for work performed in the last
five years from solicitation issuance date. At least one of the projects must be from the proposed
prime Offeror performing as the prime contractor. Past Performance is not limited to federal
contracts.

For each project, the Offeror must provide the following information:

1.  Contract or Project Name
2.  Contract Number
3.  Customer/Client Organization
4.  Point-of-Contact (Name, Title, Email Address, and Phone Number)
5.  Contract pricing type (e.g. fixed price, time and materials, etc.)
6.  Total Contract Value
7.  Period of Performance
8.  Indicate whether a CPARS Report Exists

R1S Support Services - Draft

6

9.  Project Description: The Offeror must describe the key objectives of the project,

including a brief overview of the scope and objectives.

10. Evolution: Describe the evolution of the solution to meet changing end-user and customer

needs.

11. Problems, Resolutions, or Awards: The Offeror must describe problems encountered and
resolutions throughout the project. The Offeror may also indicate if the project received
awards or commendations.

If an interim or final CPARS evaluation is unavailable for any of the past performance examples
provided, Offerors must request past performance questionnaires (PPQ) from customer
references. The Offeror is responsible for ensuring that each of the customer references receives,
completes, and returns the PPQ to the Contracting Officer. The completed PPQ must be
submitted directly via email from the customer reference to [CO email] by [due date – this will
be in advance of the rest of Phase 3 submissions]. The “subject” line in the submission email
must clearly indicate “Recreation One Stop Past Performance for [fill in name of Offeror],” and
the message must originate from the reference’s corporate or Government email system.

3.8 Phase 3: Performance Work Statement (Volume VI)
The Offeror must submit a proposed Performance Work Statement (PWS) that translates the
SOO and SOO attachments into specific, measurable, and achievable tasks, deliverables, and
performance metrics. Where the SOO and SOO attachments provides the Government’s overall
objectives and performance requirements for this solicitation, the PWS must focus on desired
end results and describe the process(es) for achieving those end results. The Offeror must use the
Government-provided PWS template.

3.9 Phase 3: Quality Assurance Surveillance Plan (QASP) (Volume VII)
The Offeror must develop a Quality Assurance Surveillance Plan (QASP) outlining its
recommendation on the best approach to conducting surveillance and ensuring quality results.
The QASP is a living document that will be updated throughout contract performance. The
Offeror must use the Government-provided QASP template.

3.10 Phase 3: Pricing (Volume VIII)
The Offeror must complete the pricing worksheet provided in the solicitation (Attachment X),
making every effort possible to propose pricing consistent with the format provided in the
template.

The Offeror must also provide a narrative that aids the Government in understanding the
Offeror’s proposed pricing along with any assumptions. The Offeror must summarize their
pricing approach and the extent to which the pricing strategy demonstrates alignment with that
approach. In addition, the Offeror must submit all (if any) assumptions or conditions.

When an Offeror is classified as “Other than Small Business”, the Offeror must submit a small
business subcontracting plan. The subcontracting plan must state separately the total dollars and
percentages that will be subcontracted to each category; small business (SB), HUBZone small
business, small disadvantaged business (SDB), women-owned small business (WOSB), and

R1S Support Services - Draft

7

veteran-owned (VOSB) and service-disabled-veteran-owned small business (SDVOSB)
concerns. The Small Business Subcontracting Plan is excluded from the page limits.
The following small business categories and the associated percentages are the FY2026 stated
goals from the USDA and are for informational purposes only:

-  Small Business: X%
-  Women-Owned: X%
-  HUBZone: X%
-  SDVOSB: X%
-  VOSB: X%
-  Small Disadvantaged: X%

Section 4: Evaluation Criteria
The Government intends to make one award as a result of this solicitation. The Government
reserves the right to make no awards. Award will be made based on a best value tradeoff
approach. All phases of the evaluation are cumulative. All technical factors when combined are
significantly more important than price. Technical factors are listed below in descending order of
importance.

The Government reserves the right to make award based on initial submissions or to hold
negotiations during any phase of the procurement.

4.1 Review
Proposals will be screened for compliance with all submission requirements as detailed in the
solicitation, including proof of FedRAMP Moderate certification.  Proposals that do not meet the
compliance requirements may be eliminated from further consideration.

4.2 Phase 1: Corporate Experience (Volume II)
Corporate experience will be evaluated on the extent to which the Offeror demonstrates recent
and relevant corporate experience in alignment with the size, scope, and complexity to the
requirements in the SOO and SOO attachments. Areas for alignment that may result in a higher
rating include, but are not limited to volume, transactions, coordination with interagency/multi-
level government stakeholders, user- and customer-driven e-commerce solution, evidence of end
user satisfaction, and delivery of an integrated solution.

4.3 Phase 2: Virtual Oral Presentation and On-the-Spot Demonstration
(Volume N/A)
The virtual oral presentation and on-the-spot demonstration will be evaluated on the extent to
which the proposed solution/approach to address the SOO and SOO attachments, including the
extent to whichi the the solution addresses the prompts given.

4.4 Phase 3: Technical Approach (Volume III)
This volume will be evaluated on the extent to which the Offeror presents a clear understanding
of the R1S mission, objectives, and constraints as defined in the SOO and SOO attachment, and
the extent to which the proposed solution, methodology, and technical innovations will

R1S Support Services - Draft

8

contribute to successful project implementation. The technical approach will also be evaluated
on the extent to which the Offeror is likely to achieve the performance objectives described in
the SOO.

4.5 Phase 3: Management and Staffing (Volume IV)
This volume will be evaluated on the extent to which the Offeror’s management approach,
organizational structure, staffing plan, and key personnel qualifications are likely to successfully
achieve the objectives. This includes how the Offeror will integrate subcontractors and the
framework for program oversight, decision-making, and escalation procedures. The Management
Approach will also be evaluated on the extent to which risks will be identified, tracked, and
mitigated throughout contract execution. The Staffing Plan will also be evaluated on the extent to
which staffing levels and skill mixes will meet the requirements. This volume will also be
evaluated for the extent to which Key Personnel will be able to successfully execute the
Offeror’s technical approach. Personnel with federal recreation knowledge and experience may
be evaluated more favorably.

4.6 Phase 3: Past Performance (Volume V)
This volume will be evaluated on the extent to which the Offeror’s past performance
demonstrates a positive record of performance. Three aspects of past performance will be
evaluated: recency, relevancy, and quality. Past performance will be determined to be recent if
the performance involves work performed within the five years prior to this solicitation being
issued. The past performance will be determined to be relevant if the performance involves work
that is the same or similar in nature, size, and complexity. The past performance quality will
include an assessment of CPARS evaluations or PPQs submitted. Additionally, the Government
may evaluate information obtained from any other sources.

In the case of offerors for which there is no information on past contract performance or where
past contract performance information is not available, the Offeror may not be evaluated
favorably or unfavorably on the factor of past contract performance. In this case, the offeror’s
past performance is unknown and assigned a performance adjectival rating of “Neutral.”

Although the government may not rate an offeror that lacks recent, relevant past performance
favorably or unfavorably with regard to past performance, the government may determine that a
“Satisfactory” past performance rating is worth more than a “Neutral” past performance rating in
a best value tradeoff.

4.7 Phase 3: PWS and QASP (Volumes VI and VII)
Each volume will be evaluated on the extent to which the Offeror’s PWS and QASP present
specific, measurable, and achievable tasks, deliverables, and performance metrics and reasonable
oversight to ensure success.

4.8 Phase 3: Price (Volume VIII)
This volume will not receive a rating. Pricing will be evaluated for fairness and reasonableness.
Price realism may also be conducted. For large business Offerors, the Government will assess the
Offeror’s Small Business Subcontracting Plan for consistency with USDA goal and the Offeror’s

R1S Support Services - Draft

9

ability to achieve their proposed plan. Small Business Subcontracting Plans inconsistent with
USDA goals will make an Offer ineligible for award.

R1S Support Services - Draft

10




---

# Source: 4. Draft-SectionB-CLINStructure.xlsx

## CLIN Structure
| R1S Support Services Draft Section B - CLIN Structure | Unnamed: 1 | Unnamed: 2 | Unnamed: 3 | Unnamed: 4 |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| NaN | NaN | NaN | NaN | NaN |
| CLIN | DESCRIPTION | UNIT | ESTIMATED QUANTITY | UNIT COST |
| NaN | NaN | NaN | NaN | NaN |
| 1 | Transition-In/Start-up | Each | NaN | NaN |
| NaN | NaN | NaN | NaN | NaN |
| 2 | Reserved | Each | NaN | 0 |
| NaN | NaN | NaN | NaN | NaN |
| 10003 | Contact Center Reservation Services | NaN | NaN | NaN |
| 0003AA | Reservation | Each | 70000 | NaN |
| 0003AAA | Reservations 1-20,000 | Each | NaN | NaN |
| 0003AAB | Reservation 20,001-40,000 | Each | NaN | NaN |
| 0003AAC | Reservations 40,001-60,000 | Each | NaN | NaN |
| 0003AAD | Reservations 60,001 - 80,000 | Each | NaN | NaN |
| 0003AAE | Reservations 80,001 - 100,000 | Each | NaN | NaN |
| 0003AAF | Reservations 100,001 and Greater | Each | NaN | NaN |
| 0003AB | Time Ticketing - Individual Ticket Sales | Each | 20000 | NaN |
| 0003ABA | Ticketing - Group of 2 People | Each |  | NaN |
| 0003ABB | Ticketing - Group of 3 People | Each |  | NaN |
| 0003ABC | Ticketing - Group of 4 People | Each |  | NaN |
| 0003ABD | Ticketing - Group of 5 People | Each |  | NaN |
| 0003ABE | Ticketing - Group of 6 People | Each |  | NaN |
| 0003AC | Low Cost Time Ticketing  (For Sites Charging $12 or less per ticket) | Each |  | NaN |
| 0003AE | Advance Sales for Motor Coaches | Each |  | NaN |
| 0003AF | Advance Sales for School Groups | Each | 5 | NaN |
| 0003AG | Shipping and Handling of Tickets (Small Order 1 - 9) | Each |  | NaN |
| 0003AH | Shipping and Handling of Tickets (Large Order 10+) | Each |  | NaN |
| 0003AI | Permit or Permit and Lottery | Each | 1600 | NaN |
| 0003AIA | Bundled Hunting Permit - NTE 5 Individual Hunting Permits | NaN |  | NaN |
| 0003AJ | Recreation Related Sales | Each |  | NaN |
| 0003AK | Interagency Pass Sales | Each |  | NaN |
| 0003AL | Vehicle Permits | Each |  | NaN |
| 0003AM | Digital Site-Specific Passes | NaN |  | NaN |
| 0003AMA | Digital Site-Specific Passes (Cost of Pass/Permit $0.01-$7.99) | Each | 20 | NaN |
| 0003AMB | Digital Site-Specific Passes (Cost of Pass/Permit $8.00-$13.99) | Each | 5 | NaN |
| 0003AMC | Digital Site-Specific Passes (Cost of Pass/Permit $14.00-$19.99) | Each | 10 | NaN |
| 0003AMD | Digital Site-Specific Passes (Cost of Pass/Permit $20.00-$24.99) | Each | 10 | NaN |
| 0003AME | Digital Site-Specific Passes (Cost of Pass/Permit $25.00-$29.99) | Each | 25 | NaN |
| 0003AMF | Digital Site-Specific Passes (Cost of Pass/Permit $30.00-$39.99) | Each | 500 | NaN |
| 0003AMG | Digital Site-Specific Passes (Cost of Pass/Permit $40.00-$49.99) | Each | 10 | NaN |
| 0003AMH | Digital Site-Specific Passes (Cost of Pass/Permit $50.00-$59.99) | Each | 10 | NaN |
| 0003AMI | Digital Site-Specific Passes (Cost of Pass/Permit $60.00-$69.99) | Each | 10 | NaN |
| 0003AMJ | Digital Site-Specific Passes (Cost of Pass/Permit $70.00-$79.99) | Each | 10 | NaN |
| 0003AMK | Digital Site-Specific Passes (Cost of Pass/Permit $80+) | Each | 5 | NaN |
| 0003AN | Timed Entry Pass | Each | 7000 | NaN |
| 0003AO | Reserved | Each |  | NaN |
| 0003AP | Christmas Tree Permit | Each | 20 | NaN |
| 0003AQ | Activity Passes | NaN |  | NaN |
| 0003AQA | Activity Passes (Cost of Pass/Permit $0.01-$7.99) | Each | 125 | NaN |
| 0003AQB | Activity Passes (Cost of Pass/Permit $8.00-$13.99) | Each | 10 | NaN |
| 0003AQC | Activity Passes (Cost of Pass/Permit $14.00-$19.99) | Each | 50 | NaN |
| 0003AQD | Activity Passes (Cost of Pass/Permit $20.00-$24.99) | Each | 5 | NaN |
| 0003AQE | Activity Passes (Cost of Pass/Permit $25.00-$29.99) | Each | 10 | NaN |
| 0003AQF | Activity Passes (Cost of Pass/Permit $30.00-$39.99) | Each | 5 | NaN |
| 0003AQG | Activity Passes (Cost of Pass/Permit $40.00-$49.99) | Each | 40 | NaN |
| 0003AQH | Activity Passes (Cost of Pass/Permit $50.00-$59.99) | Each | 10 | NaN |
| 0003AQI | Activity Passes (Cost of Pass/Permit $60.00-$69.99) | Each | 5 | NaN |
| 0003AQJ | Activity Passes (Cost of Pass/Permit $70.00-$79.99) | Each | 5 | NaN |
| 0003AQK | Activity Passes (Cost of Pass/Permit $80+) | Each | 5 | NaN |
| 0003AR | Donations | Percentage |  | NaN |
| 0003AS | Supplemental Camping Reservation | Each | 25 | NaN |
| 0003AT | Venue Reservations | NaN |  | NaN |
| 0003ATA | Venue Reservations (Cost of Reservation Fee $0.00 - $10.00) | Each |  | NaN |
| 0003ATB | Venue Reservations (Cost of Reservation Fee $10.01+) | Each | 35 | NaN |
| 10004 | Internet Reservation Services | NaN |  | NaN |
| 0004AA | Reservations | Each | 3500000 | NaN |
| 0004AAA | Reservations 1 - 500,000 | Each |  | NaN |
| 0004AAB | Reservations 500,001 - 1,000,000 | Each |  | NaN |
| 0004AAC | Reservations 1,000,001 - 1,500,000 | Each |  | NaN |
| 0004AAD | Reservations 1,500,001 - 2,000,000 | Each |  | NaN |
| 0004AAE | Reservations 2,000,001 - 2,500,000 | Each |  | NaN |
| 0004AAF | Reservations 2,500,001 - 3,000,000 | Each | NaN | NaN |
| 0004AAG | Reservations 3,000,001 - 3,500,000 | Each | NaN | NaN |
| 0004AAH | Reservations 3,500,001 - 4,000,000 | Each | NaN | NaN |
| 0004AAI | Reservations 4,000,001 - 4,500,000 | Each | NaN | NaN |
| 0004AAJ | Reservations 4,500,001 and Greater | Each | NaN | NaN |
| 0004AB | Time Ticketing - Individual Ticket Sales | Each | 3700000 | NaN |
| 0004ABA | Ticketing - Group of 2 People | Each | NaN | NaN |
| 0004ABB | Ticketing - Group of 3 People | Each | NaN | NaN |
| 0004ABC | Ticketing - Group of 4 People | Each | NaN | NaN |
| 0004ABD | Ticketing - Group of 5 People | Each | NaN | NaN |
| 0004ABE | Ticketing - Group of 6 People | Each | NaN | NaN |
| 0004AC | Low Cost Time Ticketing  (For Sites Charging $12 or less per ticket) | Each | NaN | NaN |
| 0004AE | Advance Sales for Motor Coaches | Each | NaN | NaN |
| 0004AF | Advance Sales for School Groups | Each | 350 | NaN |
| 0004AG | Shipping and Handling of Tickets (Small Order 1 - 9) | Each | NaN | NaN |
| 0004AH | Shipping and Handling of Tickets (Large Order 10+) | Each | NaN | NaN |
| 0004AI | Permit or Permit and Lottery | Each | 1100000 | NaN |
| 0004AIA | Permit or Permit and Lottery 1-500,000 | Each | NaN | NaN |
| 0004AIB | Permit or Permit and Lottery 500,001-1,000,000 | Each | NaN | NaN |
| 0004AIC | Permit or Permit and Lottery 1,000,001 and greater | Each | NaN | NaN |
| 0004AID | Bundled Hunting Permit - NTE 5 Individual Hunting Permits | Each | 500 | NaN |
| 0004AJ | Recreation Related Sales | Each | 250 | NaN |
| 0004AK | Interagency Pass Sales | Each | NaN | NaN |
| 0004AL | Vehicle Permits | Each | NaN | NaN |
| 0004AM | Digital Site-Specific Passes | NaN | NaN | NaN |
| 0004AMA | Digital Site-Specific Passes (Cost of Pass/Permit $0.01-$7.99) | Each | 155000 | NaN |
| 0004AMB | Digital Site-Specific Passes (Cost of Pass/Permit $8.00-$13.99) | Each | 45000 | NaN |
| 0004AMC | Digital Site-Specific Passes (Cost of Pass/Permit $14.00-$19.99) | Each | 23000 | NaN |
| 0004AMD | Digital Site-Specific Passes (Cost of Pass/Permit $20.00-$24.99) | Each | 60000 | NaN |
| 0004AME | Digital Site-Specific Passes (Cost of Pass/Permit $25.00-$29.99) | Each | 50000 | NaN |
| 0004AMF | Digital Site-Specific Passes (Cost of Pass/Permit $30.00-$39.99) | Each | 400000 | NaN |
| 0004AMG | Digital Site-Specific Passes (Cost of Pass/Permit $40.00-$49.99) | Each | 22000 | NaN |
| 0004AMH | Digital Site-Specific Passes (Cost of Pass/Permit $50.00-$59.99) | Each | 24000 | NaN |
| 0004AMI | Digital Site-Specific Passes (Cost of Pass/Permit $60.00-$69.99) | Each | 450 | NaN |
| 0004AMJ | Digital Site-Specific Passes (Cost of Pass/Permit $70.00-$79.99) | Each | 16500 | NaN |
| 0004AMK | Digital Site-Specific Passes (Cost of Pass/Permit $80+) | Each | 1100 | NaN |
| 0004AN | Timed Entry Pass | Each | 2100000 | NaN |
| 0004AO | Mobile Fee Collection / Mobile Camping | NaN | NaN | NaN |
| 0004AOA | Mobile Fee Collection / Mobile Camping (Cost of Pass/Permit $0.01-$7.99) | Each | 33000 | NaN |
| 0004AOB | Mobile Fee Collection / Mobile Camping (Cost of Pass/Permit $8.00-$13.99) | Each | 7000 | NaN |
| 0004AOC | Mobile Fee Collection / Mobile Camping (Cost of Pass/Permit $14.00-$19.99) | Each | 3700 | NaN |
| 0004AOD | Mobile Fee Collection / Mobile Camping (Cost of Pass/Permit $20.00-$24.99) | Each | 4200 | NaN |
| 0004AOE | Mobile Fee Collection / Mobile Camping (Cost of Pass/Permit $25.00-$29.99) | Each | 3000 | NaN |
| 0004AOF | Mobile Fee Collection / Mobile Camping (Cost of Pass/Permit $30.00-$39.99) | Each | 2800 | NaN |
| 0004AOG | Mobile Fee Collection / Mobile Camping (Cost of Pass/Permit $40.00-$49.99) | Each | 1500 | NaN |
| 0004AOH | Mobile Fee Collection / Mobile Camping (Cost of Pass/Permit $50.00-$59.99) | Each | 1000 | NaN |
| 0004AOI | Mobile Fee Collection / Mobile Camping (Cost of Pass/Permit $60.00-$69.99) | Each | 1000 | NaN |
| 0004AOJ | Mobile Fee Collection / Mobile Camping (Cost of Pass/Permit $70.00-$79.99) | Each | 700 | NaN |
| 0004AOK | Mobile Fee Collection / Mobile Camping (Cost of Pass/Permit $80+) | Each | 1200 | NaN |
| 0004AP | Christmas Tree Permit | Each | 172000 | NaN |
| 0004AQ | Activity Passes | NaN | NaN | NaN |
| 0004AQA | Activity Passes (Cost of Pass/Permit $0.01-$7.99) | Each | 150000 | NaN |
| 0004AQB | Activity Passes (Cost of Pass/Permit $8.00-$13.99) | Each | 15000 | NaN |
| 0004AQC | Activity Passes (Cost of Pass/Permit $14.00-$19.99) | Each | 41000 | NaN |
| 0004AQD | Activity Passes (Cost of Pass/Permit $20.00-$24.99) | Each | 10000 | NaN |
| 0004AQE | Activity Passes (Cost of Pass/Permit $25.00-$29.99) | Each | 8000 | NaN |
| 0004AQF | Activity Passes (Cost of Pass/Permit $30.00-$39.99) | Each | 5100 | NaN |
| 0004AQG | Activity Passes (Cost of Pass/Permit $40.00-$49.99) | Each | 22000 | NaN |
| 0004AQH | Activity Passes (Cost of Pass/Permit $50.00-$59.99) | Each | 11000 | NaN |
| 0004AQI | Activity Passes (Cost of Pass/Permit $60.00-$69.99) | Each | 400 | NaN |
| 0004AQJ | Activity Passes (Cost of Pass/Permit $70.00-$79.99) | Each | 5000 | NaN |
| 0004AQK | Activity Passes (Cost of Pass/Permit $80+) | Each | 3500 | NaN |
| 0004AR | Donations | Percentage | NaN | NaN |
| 0004AS | Supplemental Camping Reservation | Each | 3850 | NaN |
| 0003AT | Venue Reservations | NaN | NaN | NaN |
| 0004ATA | Venue Reservations (Cost of Reservation Fee $0.00 - $10.00) | Each | 150 | NaN |
| 0004ATB | Venue Reservations (Cost of Reservation Fee $10.01+) | Each | 8000 | NaN |
| 10005 | Field Reservation Services | NaN | NaN | NaN |
| 0005AA | Reservations | Each | 60000 | NaN |
| 0005AB | Time Ticketing - Individual Ticket Sales | Each | 200000 | NaN |
| 0005ABA | Ticketing - Group of 2 People | Each | NaN | NaN |
| 0005ABB | Ticketing - Group of 3 People | Each | NaN | NaN |
| 0005ABC | Ticketing - Group of 4 People | Each | NaN | NaN |
| 0005ABD | Ticketing - Group of 5 People | Each | NaN | NaN |
| 0005ABE | Ticketing - Group of 6 People | Each | NaN | NaN |
| 0005AD | Field Sales for Non-fee facility | Each | NaN | NaN |
| 0005AE | Field Sales for Private Motor Coaches | Each | NaN | NaN |
| 0005AF | Advance Sales for School Groups | Each | 30 | NaN |
| 0005AG | Permit or Permit and Lottery | Each | 40000 | NaN |
| 0005AGA | Bundled Hunting Permit - NTE 5 Individual Hunting Permits | NaN | NaN | NaN |
| 0005AH | Vehicle Permits | Each | NaN | NaN |
| 0005AM | Digital Site-Specific Passes | NaN | NaN | NaN |
| 0005AMA | Digital Site-Specific Passes (Cost of Pass/Permit $0.01-$7.99) | Each | 1100 | NaN |
| 0005AMB | Digital Site-Specific Passes (Cost of Pass/Permit $8.00-$13.99) | Each | 100 | NaN |
| 0005AMC | Digital Site-Specific Passes (Cost of Pass/Permit $14.00-$19.99) | Each | 25 | NaN |
| 0005AMD | Digital Site-Specific Passes (Cost of Pass/Permit $20.00-$24.99) | Each | 5 | NaN |
| 0005AME | Digital Site-Specific Passes (Cost of Pass/Permit $25.00-$29.99) | Each | 75 | NaN |
| 0005AMF | Digital Site-Specific Passes (Cost of Pass/Permit $30.00-$39.99) | Each | 250 | NaN |
| 0005AMG | Digital Site-Specific Passes (Cost of Pass/Permit $40.00-$49.99) | Each | NaN | NaN |
| 0005AMH | Digital Site-Specific Passes (Cost of Pass/Permit $50.00-$59.99) | Each | 5 | NaN |
| 0005AMI | Digital Site-Specific Passes (Cost of Pass/Permit $60.00-$69.99) | Each | NaN | NaN |
| 0005AMJ | Digital Site-Specific Passes (Cost of Pass/Permit $70.00-$79.99) | Each | NaN | NaN |
| 0005AMK | Digital Site-Specific Passes (Cost of Pass/Permit $80+) | Each | 5 | NaN |
| 0005AN | Timed Entry Pass | Each | 85000 | NaN |
| 0005AO | Reserved | NaN | NaN | NaN |
| 0005AP | Christmas Tree Permits | Each | NaN | NaN |
| 0005AQ | Activity Passes | NaN | NaN | NaN |
| 0005AQA | Activity Passes (Cost of Pass/Permit $0.01-$7.99) | Each | 5 | NaN |
| 0005AQB | Activity Passes (Cost of Pass/Permit $8.00-$13.99) | Each | 15 | NaN |
| 0005AQC | Activity Passes (Cost of Pass/Permit $14.00-$19.99) | Each | 750 | NaN |
| 0005AQD | Activity Passes (Cost of Pass/Permit $20.00-$24.99) | Each | 20 | NaN |
| 0005AQE | Activity Passes (Cost of Pass/Permit $25.00-$29.99) | Each | NaN | NaN |
| 0005AQF | Activity Passes (Cost of Pass/Permit $30.00-$39.99) | Each | 200 | NaN |
| 0005AQG | Activity Passes (Cost of Pass/Permit $40.00-$49.99) | Each | 1000 | NaN |
| 0005AQH | Activity Passes (Cost of Pass/Permit $50.00-$59.99) | Each | 80 | NaN |
| 0005AQI | Activity Passes (Cost of Pass/Permit $60.00-$69.99) | Each | 60 | NaN |
| 0005AQJ | Activity Passes (Cost of Pass/Permit $70.00-$79.99) | Each | 400 | NaN |
| 0005AQK | Activity Passes (Cost of Pass/Permit $80+) | Each | 700 | NaN |
| 0005AR | Donations | Percentage | NaN | NaN |
| 0005AS | Supplemental Camping Reservation | Each | 5 | NaN |
| 0005AT | Venue Reservations | NaN | NaN | NaN |
| 0005ATA | Venue Reservations (Cost of Reservation Fee $0.00 - $10.00) | Each | NaN | NaN |
| 0005ATB | Venue Reservations (Cost of Reservation Fee $10.01+) | Each | 60 | NaN |
| 10006 | Telecommunications - \*Note: Some sub-CLINs will be able to be proposed by Offerors based on their telecommunication solution(s) | NaN | NaN | NaN |
| 0006AA | Monthly Telecommunication Service Per Site | Sites / Month |  | NaN |
| 0006AA2 | Monthly Telecommunication Service Per Site - 50GB (12 months minimum contract Term) | Sites / Month | NaN | NaN |
| 0006AAA | Monthly Telecommunication Service Per Network | Network / Month | NaN | NaN |
| 0006AAB | Telecommunication Initial Service Setup & Testing Per Network | /network | NaN | NaN |
| 0006AB | De-installation of Telecommunications Equipment | Sites | NaN | NaN |
| 0006AC | Re-installation of Previously Installed Telecommunications Equipment | Sites | NaN | NaN |
| 0006AD | Routine Relocation of Previously Installed Telecommunications Equipment | Sites | NaN | NaN |
| 0006AE | Maintenance of Installed Telecommunications Equipment | NSP | NaN | NaN |
| 0006AE01 | Hourly Labor Rate | Hours | NaN | NaN |
| 0006AF | Initial Permanent Installation of Telecommunications Equipment | Sites | NaN | NaN |
| 0006AF01 | Optional electric deicing for antenna (as required based on site) | Sites | NaN | NaN |
| 0006AF02 | Optional larger antenna (as required based on site) | Sites | NaN | NaN |
| 0006AF03 | Optional Initial Installation (Pole up to 10') | Each | NaN | NaN |
| 0006AF04 | Optional Alaska / Non-contiguous US site installation | Site | NaN | NaN |
| 0006AF05 | Non-Standard Installation Materials Not Included in Basic Installation | NTE | NaN | NaN |
| 0006AF06 | Branch Gateway - or equivalent | Each | NaN | NaN |
| 0006AF07 | Modem - or equivalent | Each | NaN | NaN |
| 0006AF08 | Antenna w/Az/El - or equivalent | Each | NaN | NaN |
| 0006AF09 | J2-1W 1-Way Radio - or equivalent | Each | NaN | NaN |
| 0006AF10 | Standard Installation of Modem | Each | NaN | NaN |
| 0006AF11 | Standard Installation of Gateway | NTE | NaN | NaN |
| 0006AG | Site Survey and Report (Standard CONUS) | Each | NaN | NaN |
| 0006AH1 | Indoor Access Point (AP) - includes POE and Mount | Each | NaN | NaN |
| 0006AH2 | Passive Site Survey with floor plan | Each | NaN | NaN |
| 0006AH3 | Construction Site Survey onsite | Each | NaN | NaN |
| 0006AH4 | First AP Standard Installation - Separate site visit | Each | NaN | NaN |
| 0006AH5 | First AP Installation - with transport | Each | NaN | NaN |
| 0006AH6 | Additional AP installation (per AP) | Each | NaN | NaN |
| 0006AH7 | Managed Wi-Fi Base (1st Service w/Tier 3 Support)  1-3 AP's only | Monthly/Site | NaN | NaN |
| 0006AH8 | Add 2nd Incremental Service (SSID) | Monthly/Site | NaN | NaN |
| 0006AH9 | Portal per User per Month | Monthly/User | NaN | NaN |
| 0006AH10 | Next Calendar Day Maint. (per AP) | Monthly/AP | NaN | NaN |
| 0006AH101 | Wi-Fi scanning (incremental to Wi-Fi Service) (per AP) | Monthly/AP | NaN | NaN |
| 0006AH12 | Reserved | NaN | NaN | NaN |
| 0006AH13 | Incremental for Business 75 (25/3 Mbps with 25GB Business Usage and 50GB Anytime Usage) | Monthly/Site | NaN | NaN |
| 0006AH14 | Incremental Business 150 (25/3 Mbps with 50GB Business Usage and 100GB Anytime Usage) | Monthly/Site | NaN | NaN |
| 0006AH15 | Incremental Business 250 (25/3 Mbps with 50GB Business Usage and 200GB Anytime Usage) | Monthly/Site | NaN | NaN |
| 0006AH16 | Overage Charge - Token per GB | Monthly/Site | NaN | NaN |
| NaN | NaN | NaN | NaN | NaN |
| NaN | NaN | NaN | NaN | NaN |
| 10007 | Specialized Lottery Services | NaN | NaN | NaN |
| 0007AA | Lottery Only | NaN | NaN | NaN |
| 0007AB | Lottery Execution and Fulfillment (National Christmas Tree Lighting) | Lot | NaN | NaN |
| 0007AC | Lottery Execution and Fulfillment (White House Easter Egg Roll) | Lot | NaN | NaN |
| 0007AD | Simple Lottery Execution and Fulfillment Event - Other | Lot | NaN | NaN |
| 0007AE | Complex Lottery Execution and Fulfillment Event - Other | Lot | NaN | NaN |
| NaN | NaN | NaN | NaN | NaN |
| 10008 | USDA ATO | NaN | NaN | NaN |
| 0008A | Program Manager | Hourly | NaN | NaN |
| 0008B | Engineering Director | Hourly | NaN | NaN |
| 0008C | Senior Technical Lead | Hourly | NaN | NaN |
| 0008D | Senior Technical Engineer | Hourly | NaN | NaN |
| 0008E | Mid Technical Engineer | Hourly | NaN | NaN |
| 0008F | Junior Technical Engineer | Hourly | NaN | NaN |
| 0008G | Senior Compliance SME | Hourly | NaN | NaN |
| 0008H | Mid Compliance Analyst | Hourly | NaN | NaN |
| 0008I | Junior Compliance Analyst | Hourly | NaN | NaN |
| 0008J | Travel | Lot | NaN | NaN |
| NaN | NaN | NaN | NaN | NaN |
| 0009 | EMV Chip & PIN (Point of Sale Terminals) | NaN | NaN | NaN |
| 0009A | Point-of-Sale Integrated Device | Each | NaN | NaN |
| 0009B | Shipping | Job | NaN | NaN |
| 0009C | Replacement Support Charge | Each | NaN | NaN |
| 0009D | Repair Support Charge | Each | NaN | NaN |
| 0009E | Repair | Job | NaN | NaN |
| 0009F | Disposal | Each | NaN | NaN |
| 0009G | Retrieval | Each | NaN | NaN |
| 0010 | R1S Data Cloud Storage Services | NaN | NaN | NaN |
| 0010A | Operate, Maintain Cloud Storage Service | Month | NaN | NaN |
| 0011 | Digital Pass Record Creation | NaN | NaN | NaN |
| 0011A | Pass Record Creation (0-1,500,000) | Each | NaN | NaN |
| 0011B | Pass Record Creation (1,500,001 – 3,000,000) | Each | NaN | NaN |
| 0011C | Pass Record Creation (3,000,001+) | Each | NaN | NaN |
| 0012 | Contact Center Service Contract Act (SCA) Labor - These costs should not be included in any other CLIN | NaN | NaN | NaN |
| 0012A | Contact Center Labor Category 1 - (Firm Fixed Priced) | Monthly | NaN | NaN |
| 0012B | Contact Center Labor Category 2 - (Firm Fixed Priced) | Monthly | NaN | NaN |


---

# Source: 5. Sample-Draft-BusinesRules.xlsx

## Sheet1
| Draft R1S Business Rules Sample | Unnamed: 1 | Unnamed: 2 |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Rule Type | Sub Rule Type | Requirement |
| Booking Window | Campground Booking Windows | The ability to set a variety of booking windows for each site, site type, loops, and entire campgrounds. These vary across the program. The government also requires the ability to set default windows that can be changed by authorized personel with appropriate roles and permissions at every level of the campground. These can be adjusted from months down to days to account for specific needs of a campground. The government requires that an agency staff  to make rapid changes to booking windows. |
| Booking Window | Campsite Booking Windows | Flexibility to apply a different booking window at the campsite level. This can be different from the campground booking window and must be easy for the customer to understand when the campsite will release vs. the rest of the campground. |
| Booking Window | Campground Reservation Cut-Off Window | The ability of local managers  to set a reservation cut off window. A cut-off window allows managers to determine cut-off windows at all levels of the campground including the entire campground, loops, sites and site types.  Managers can choose a variety of windows including but not limited to weeks, days, and hours.  Managers may also choose to not employ a cut-off window at all allowing for same day reservations. |
| Booking Window | Campsite Reservation Cut-Off Window | Similar to the campground reservation cut off window this rule allows for managers to set different cut-off windows at the campsite level in case the whole campground does not need to be on the same cut off window. |
| Booking Window | Maximum Length of Stay | When new sites are released, visitors may book reservations that start within the open window and into the future up to and including the entire maximumm length of stay allow at a location. |
| Booking Window | Sliding Window Freeze | This rule prevents visitors from continuously sliding their reservation into the future to capture desirable dates.  These reservations may not be cancelled or changed during the freeze period. |
| Booking Window | Block Release | Instead of releasing new inventory on a day-by-day basis, this allows a manager to release an entire block of dates on a given day. |
| Booking Window | Rolling Release | This type of release opens new inventory every day.  (I.e., with a 6 month booking window, on February 1st, a visitor may book arrival dates starting on August 1st). This wondow continues throughout the open season. It also applies to the next season even if a location is currently closed. |
| Booking Window | Seasons | Managers must be able to identify different seasons for entire campgrounds, loops, sites, and site types which may have different lengths of stay and rates. |


---

